docs/source/tutorials/getting_data.rst, before:

.. _tut_getting_data:

Tutorial for getting data from DXF files
========================================

In this tutorial I show you how to get data from an existing DXF drawing.

Loading the DXF file:

.. code-block:: Python

    import ezdxf

    doc = ezdxf.readfile("your_dxf_file.dxf")


.. seealso::

    :ref:`dwgmanagement`

Layouts
-------

I use the term layout as synonym for an arbitrary entity space which can contain DXF entities like LINE, CIRCLE, TEXT
and so on. Every DXF entity can only reside in exact one layout.

There are three different layout types:

- :class:`~ezdxf.layouts.Modelspace`: this is the common construction space
- :class:`~ezdxf.layouts.Paperspace`: used to to create print layouts
- :class:`~ezdxf.layouts.BlockLayout`: reusable elements, every block has its own entity space

A DXF drawing consist of exact one modelspace and at least of one paperspace. DXF R12 has only one unnamed
paperspace the later DXF versions support more than one paperspace and each paperspace has a name.

Iterate over DXF entities of a layout
-------------------------------------

Iterate over all DXF entities in modelspace. Although this is a possible way to retrieve DXF entities, I
would like to point out that `entity queries`_ are the better way.

.. code-block:: Python

    # iterate over all entities in modelspace
    msp = doc.modelspace()
    for e in msp:
        if e.dxftype() == 'LINE':
            print_entity(e)

    # entity query for all LINE entities in modelspace
    for e in msp.query('LINE'):
        print_entity(e)

    def print_entity(e):
        print("LINE on layer: %s\n" % e.dxf.layer)
        print("start point: %s\n" % e.dxf.start)
        print("end point: %s\n" % e.dxf.end)

All layout objects supports the standard Python iterator protocol and the ``in`` operator.

Access DXF attributes of an entity
----------------------------------

Check the type of an DXF entity by :meth:`e.dxftype`. The DXF type is always uppercase.
All DXF attributes of an entity are grouped in the namespace attribute :attr:`~ezdxf.entities.dxfentity.DXFEntity.dxf`:

.. code-block:: Python

    e.dxf.layer  # layer of the entity as string
    e.dxf.color  # color of the entity as integer

See :ref:`Common graphical DXF attributes`


If a DXF attribute is not set (a valid DXF attribute has no value), a :class:`DXFValueError` will be raised. To avoid this use
the :meth:`~ezdxf.entities.dxfentity.DXFEntity.get_dxf_attrib` method with a default value:

.. code-block:: Python

    # if DXF attribute 'paperspace' does not exist, the entity defaults to modelspace
    p = e.get_dxf_attrib('paperspace', 0)

An unsupported DXF attribute raises an :class:`DXFAttributeError`.


Getting a paperspace layout
---------------------------

.. code:: Python

    paperspace = doc.layout('layout0')

Retrieves the paperspace named ``layout0``, the usage of the :class:`~ezdxf.layouts.Layout` object is the same as of
the modelspace object. DXF R12 provides only one paperspace, therefore the paperspace name in the method call
:code:`doc.layout('layout0')` is ignored or can be left off. For the later DXF versions you get a list of the names
of the available layouts by :meth:`~ezdxf.document.Drawing.layout_names`.

.. _entity queries:

Retrieve entities by query language
-----------------------------------

`ezdxf` provides a flexible query language for DXF entities.
All layout types have a :meth:`~ezdxf.layouts.BaseLayout.query` method to start an entity query
or use the :meth:`ezdxf.query.new` function.

The query string is the combination of two queries, first the required entity query and second the optional attribute
query, enclosed in square brackets: ``'EntityQuery[AttributeQuery]'``

The entity query is a whitespace separated list of DXF entity names or the special name ``*``.
Where ``*`` means all DXF entities, all other DXF names have to be uppercase. The ``*`` search can exclude entity types
by adding the entity name with a presceding ``!`` (e.g. ``* !LINE``, search all entities except lines).

The attribute query is used to select DXF entities by its DXF attributes. The attribute query is an addition to the
entity query and matches only if the entity already match the entity query. The attribute query is a
boolean expression, supported operators: ``and``, ``or``, ``!``.

.. seealso::

    :ref:`entity query string`

Get all LINE entities from the modelspace:

.. code-block:: Python

    msp = doc.modelspace()
    lines = msp.query('LINE')

The result container :class:`~ezdxf.query.EntityQuery` also provides the :meth:`query()` method,
get all LINE entities at layer ``construction``:

.. code-block:: Python

    construction_lines = lines.query('*[layer=="construction"]')

The ``*`` is a wildcard for all DXF types, in this case you could also use ``LINE`` instead of ``*``, ``*`` works
here because ``lines`` just contains entities of DXF type LINE.

All together as one query:

.. code-block:: Python

    lines = msp.query('LINE[layer=="construction"]')

The ENTITIES section also supports the :meth:`query` method:

.. code-block:: Python

    lines_and_circles = doc.entities.query('LINE CIRCLE[layer=="construction"]')

Get all modelspace entities at layer ``construction``, but excluding entities with linetype ``DASHED``:

.. code-block:: Python

    not_dashed_entities = msp.query('*[layer=="construction" and linetype!="DASHED"]')


.. _using_groupby:

Retrieve entities by groupby() function
---------------------------------------

Search and group entities by a user defined criteria. As example let's group all entities from modelspace by layer, the
result will be a dict with layer names as dict-key and a list of all entities from modelspace matching this layer as
dict-value. Usage as dedicated function call:

.. code-block:: Python

    from ezdxf.groupby import groupby
    group = groupby(entities=msp, dxfattrib='layer')

The `entities` argument can be any container or generator which yields :class:`~ezdxf.entities.DXFEntity` or
inherited objects. Shorter and simpler to use as method of :class:`~ezdxf.layouts.BaseLayout` (modelspace,
paperspace layouts, blocks) and query results as :class:`~ezdxf.query.EntityQuery` objects:

.. code-block:: Python

    group = msp.groupby(dxfattrib='layer')

    for layer, entities in group.items():
        print(f'Layer "{layer}" contains following entities:')
        for entity in entities:
            print('    {}'.format(str(entity)))
        print('-'*40)

The previous example shows how to group entities by a single DXF attribute, but it is also possible to group entities
by a custom key, to do so create a custom key function, which accepts a DXF entity as argument and returns a
hashable value as dict-key or ``None`` to exclude the entity.
The following example shows how to group entities by layer and color, so each result entry has a tuple
``(layer, color)`` as key and a list of entities with matching DXF attributes:

.. code-block:: Python

    def layer_and_color_key(entity):
        # return None to exclude entities from result container
        if entity.dxf.layer == '0':  # exclude entities from default layer '0'
            return None
        else:
            return entity.dxf.layer, entity.dxf.color

    group = msp.groupby(key=layer_and_color_key)
    for key, entities in group.items():
        print(f'Grouping criteria "{key}" matches following entities:')
        for entity in entities:
            print('    {}'.format(str(entity)))
        print('-'*40)

To exclude entities from the result container the `key` function should return ``None``.
The :func:`~ezdxf.groupby.groupby` function catches :class:`DXFAttributeError` exceptions while processing entities and
excludes this entities from the result container. So there is no need to worry about DXF entities which do not support
certain attributes, they will be excluded automatically.

.. seealso::

    :func:`~ezdxf.groupby.groupby` documentation

Commit message:

update tutorials and how-tos in terms of usage of the recover module

docs/source/tutorials/getting_data.rst, after:

.. _tut_getting_data:

Tutorial for getting data from DXF files
========================================

In this tutorial I show you how to get data from an existing DXF drawing.

Loading the DXF file:

.. code-block:: Python

    import sys
    import ezdxf

    try:
        doc = ezdxf.readfile("your_dxf_file.dxf")
    except IOError:
        print(f'Not a DXF file or a generic I/O error.')
        sys.exit(1)
    except ezdxf.DXFStructureError:
        print(f'Invalid or corrupted DXF file.')
        sys.exit(2)

This works well with DXF files from trusted sources like AutoCAD or BricsCAD,
for loading DXF files with minor or major flaws look at the
:mod:`ezdxf.recover` module.

.. seealso::

    :ref:`dwgmanagement`

Layouts
-------

I use the term layout as synonym for an arbitrary entity space which can contain DXF entities like LINE, CIRCLE, TEXT
and so on. Every DXF entity can only reside in exact one layout.

There are three different layout types:

- :class:`~ezdxf.layouts.Modelspace`: this is the common construction space
- :class:`~ezdxf.layouts.Paperspace`: used to to create print layouts
- :class:`~ezdxf.layouts.BlockLayout`: reusable elements, every block has its own entity space

A DXF drawing consist of exact one modelspace and at least of one paperspace. DXF R12 has only one unnamed
paperspace the later DXF versions support more than one paperspace and each paperspace has a name.

Iterate over DXF entities of a layout
-------------------------------------

Iterate over all DXF entities in modelspace. Although this is a possible way to retrieve DXF entities, I
would like to point out that `entity queries`_ are the better way.

.. code-block:: Python

    # iterate over all entities in modelspace
    msp = doc.modelspace()
    for e in msp:
        if e.dxftype() == 'LINE':
            print_entity(e)

    # entity query for all LINE entities in modelspace
    for e in msp.query('LINE'):
        print_entity(e)

    def print_entity(e):
        print("LINE on layer: %s\n" % e.dxf.layer)
        print("start point: %s\n" % e.dxf.start)
        print("end point: %s\n" % e.dxf.end)

All layout objects supports the standard Python iterator protocol and the ``in`` operator.

Access DXF attributes of an entity
----------------------------------

Check the type of an DXF entity by :meth:`e.dxftype`. The DXF type is always uppercase.
All DXF attributes of an entity are grouped in the namespace attribute :attr:`~ezdxf.entities.dxfentity.DXFEntity.dxf`:

.. code-block:: Python

    e.dxf.layer  # layer of the entity as string
    e.dxf.color  # color of the entity as integer

See :ref:`Common graphical DXF attributes`


If a DXF attribute is not set (a valid DXF attribute has no value), a :class:`DXFValueError` will be raised. To avoid this use
the :meth:`~ezdxf.entities.dxfentity.DXFEntity.get_dxf_attrib` method with a default value:

.. code-block:: Python

    # if DXF attribute 'paperspace' does not exist, the entity defaults to modelspace
    p = e.get_dxf_attrib('paperspace', 0)

An unsupported DXF attribute raises an :class:`DXFAttributeError`.


Getting a paperspace layout
---------------------------

.. code:: Python

    paperspace = doc.layout('layout0')

Retrieves the paperspace named ``layout0``, the usage of the :class:`~ezdxf.layouts.Layout` object is the same as of
the modelspace object. DXF R12 provides only one paperspace, therefore the paperspace name in the method call
:code:`doc.layout('layout0')` is ignored or can be left off. For the later DXF versions you get a list of the names
of the available layouts by :meth:`~ezdxf.document.Drawing.layout_names`.

.. _entity queries:

Retrieve entities by query language
-----------------------------------

`ezdxf` provides a flexible query language for DXF entities.
All layout types have a :meth:`~ezdxf.layouts.BaseLayout.query` method to start an entity query
or use the :meth:`ezdxf.query.new` function.

The query string is the combination of two queries, first the required entity query and second the optional attribute
query, enclosed in square brackets: ``'EntityQuery[AttributeQuery]'``

The entity query is a whitespace separated list of DXF entity names or the special name ``*``.
Where ``*`` means all DXF entities, all other DXF names have to be uppercase. The ``*`` search can exclude entity types
by adding the entity name with a presceding ``!`` (e.g. ``* !LINE``, search all entities except lines).

The attribute query is used to select DXF entities by its DXF attributes. The attribute query is an addition to the
entity query and matches only if the entity already match the entity query. The attribute query is a
boolean expression, supported operators: ``and``, ``or``, ``!``.

.. seealso::

    :ref:`entity query string`

Get all LINE entities from the modelspace:

.. code-block:: Python

    msp = doc.modelspace()
    lines = msp.query('LINE')

The result container :class:`~ezdxf.query.EntityQuery` also provides the :meth:`query()` method,
get all LINE entities at layer ``construction``:

.. code-block:: Python

    construction_lines = lines.query('*[layer=="construction"]')

The ``*`` is a wildcard for all DXF types, in this case you could also use ``LINE`` instead of ``*``, ``*`` works
here because ``lines`` just contains entities of DXF type LINE.

All together as one query:

.. code-block:: Python

    lines = msp.query('LINE[layer=="construction"]')

The ENTITIES section also supports the :meth:`query` method:

.. code-block:: Python

    lines_and_circles = doc.entities.query('LINE CIRCLE[layer=="construction"]')

Get all modelspace entities at layer ``construction``, but excluding entities with linetype ``DASHED``:

.. code-block:: Python

    not_dashed_entities = msp.query('*[layer=="construction" and linetype!="DASHED"]')


.. _using_groupby:

Retrieve entities by groupby() function
---------------------------------------

Search and group entities by a user defined criteria. As example let's group all entities from modelspace by layer, the
result will be a dict with layer names as dict-key and a list of all entities from modelspace matching this layer as
dict-value. Usage as dedicated function call:

.. code-block:: Python

    from ezdxf.groupby import groupby
    group = groupby(entities=msp, dxfattrib='layer')

The `entities` argument can be any container or generator which yields :class:`~ezdxf.entities.DXFEntity` or
inherited objects. Shorter and simpler to use as method of :class:`~ezdxf.layouts.BaseLayout` (modelspace,
paperspace layouts, blocks) and query results as :class:`~ezdxf.query.EntityQuery` objects:

.. code-block:: Python

    group = msp.groupby(dxfattrib='layer')

    for layer, entities in group.items():
        print(f'Layer "{layer}" contains following entities:')
        for entity in entities:
            print('    {}'.format(str(entity)))
        print('-'*40)

The previous example shows how to group entities by a single DXF attribute, but it is also possible to group entities
by a custom key, to do so create a custom key function, which accepts a DXF entity as argument and returns a
hashable value as dict-key or ``None`` to exclude the entity.
The following example shows how to group entities by layer and color, so each result entry has a tuple
``(layer, color)`` as key and a list of entities with matching DXF attributes:

.. code-block:: Python

    def layer_and_color_key(entity):
        # return None to exclude entities from result container
        if entity.dxf.layer == '0':  # exclude entities from default layer '0'
            return None
        else:
            return entity.dxf.layer, entity.dxf.color

    group = msp.groupby(key=layer_and_color_key)
    for key, entities in group.items():
        print(f'Grouping criteria "{key}" matches following entities:')
        for entity in entities:
            print('    {}'.format(str(entity)))
        print('-'*40)

To exclude entities from the result container the `key` function should return ``None``.
The :func:`~ezdxf.groupby.groupby` function catches :class:`DXFAttributeError` exceptions while processing entities and
excludes this entities from the result container. So there is no need to worry about DXF entities which do not support
certain attributes, they will be excluded automatically.

.. seealso::

    :func:`~ezdxf.groupby.groupby` documentation
