.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: ''
assignees: ''

---

**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

**To Reproduce**
Information and data needed to reproduce the error:
1. A *simplified* Python script which triggers the error.
2. Information about the *ezdxf* version and the OS.
3. If a 3rd party DXF file causes the error, add a *simplified* and *zipped* 
   DXF file which still triggers the error.

**Confidential Data**
If you have sensitive files that you can't disclose, try to remove everything 
sensitive from an existing file or create a brand new one which still triggers 
the error. Alternatively, you can send the zipped files to confidential@mozman.at, 
this data is only saved locally (no cloud upload of any kind) and the files are 
deleted after the error has been fixed.

**Expected behavior**
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

**Screenshots**
If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.

Commit message:

add note on solving language barriers

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: ''
assignees: ''

---

If you feel very uncomfortable writing in English or don't have access to a translation 
service like Google Translate, you can also write in your native language because I have 
access to Google Translate. However, this will take longer to solve the issue and there 
will be misunderstandings.

如果您觉得用英语写作很不舒服，或者无法使用谷歌翻译等翻译服务，您也可以用您的母语写作，因为我可以使用谷歌翻译。
然而，这将需要更长的时间来解决问题，并且会产生误解。

**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

**To Reproduce**
Information and data needed to reproduce the error:
1. A *simplified* and executable Python script which triggers the error.
2. Information about the *ezdxf* version and the OS.
3. If processing a loaded DXF file causes the error, add a *simplified* and *zipped* 
   DXF file which still triggers the error.

**Confidential Data**
If you have sensitive files that you can't disclose, try to remove everything 
sensitive from an existing file or create a brand new one which still triggers 
the error. Alternatively, you can send the zipped files to confidential@mozman.at, 
this data is only saved locally (no cloud upload of any kind) and the files are 
deleted after the error has been fixed.

**Expected behavior**
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

**Screenshots**
If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.
