docs/source/disassemble.rst, before:

Disassemble
===========

.. versionadded:: 0.16

.. module:: ezdxf.disassemble

This module provide tools for the recursive decomposition of DXF entities into
a flat stream of DXF entities and converting DXF entities into generic
:class:`~ezdxf.render.path.Path` and :class:`~ezdxf.render.mesh.MeshBuilder`
objects.

The :class:`~ezdxf.entities.Hatch` entity is special because this entity can
not be reduced into as single path or mesh object. The :func:`make_primitive`
function returns an empty primitive, instead use the :func:`to_primitives`
function to convert a :class:`~ezdxf.entities.Hatch` entity into multiple
(boundary) path objects::

    paths = list(to_primitives([hatch_entity]))


.. warning::

    Do not expect advanced vectorization capabilities: Text entities like TEXT,
    ATTRIB, ATTDEF and MTEXT get only a rough border box representation.
    VIEWPORT, IMAGE and WIPEOUT are represented by their clipping path.
    Unsupported entities: all ACIS based entities, XREF, UNDERLAY, ACAD_TABLE,
    RAY, XLINE. Unsupported entities will be ignored.

.. autofunction:: recursive_decompose(entities: Iterable[DXFEntity]) -> Iterable[DXFEntity]

.. autofunction:: to_primitives(entities: Iterable[DXFEntity]) -> Iterable[AbstractPrimitive]

.. autofunction:: to_vertices(primitives: Iterable[AbstractPrimitive]) -> Iterable[Vec3]

.. autofunction:: make_primitive(entity: DXFEntity, max_flattening_distance=None) -> AbstractPrimitive

.. class:: AbstractPrimitive

    Interface class for path/mesh primitives.

    .. attribute:: entity

    Reference to the source DXF entity of this primitive.

    .. attribute:: max_flattening_distance

    The `max_flattening_distance` attribute defines the max distance in drawing
    units between the approximation line and the original curve.
    Set the value by direct attribute access. (float) default = 0.01

    .. autoproperty:: path

    .. autoproperty:: mesh

    .. autoproperty:: is_empty

    .. automethod:: vertices() -> Iterable[Vec3]

Commit message:

prepare optional matplotlib font support

docs/source/disassemble.rst, after:

Disassemble
===========

.. versionadded:: 0.16

.. module:: ezdxf.disassemble

This module provide tools for the recursive decomposition of DXF entities into
a flat stream of DXF entities and converting DXF entities into generic
:class:`~ezdxf.render.path.Path` and :class:`~ezdxf.render.mesh.MeshBuilder`
objects.

The :class:`~ezdxf.entities.Hatch` entity is special because this entity can
not be reduced into as single path or mesh object. The :func:`make_primitive`
function returns an empty primitive, instead use the :func:`to_primitives`
function to convert a :class:`~ezdxf.entities.Hatch` entity into multiple
(boundary) path objects::

    paths = list(to_primitives([hatch_entity]))


.. warning::

    Do not expect advanced vectorization capabilities: Text entities like TEXT,
    ATTRIB, ATTDEF and MTEXT get only a rough border box representation.
    VIEWPORT, IMAGE and WIPEOUT are represented by their clipping path.
    Unsupported entities: all ACIS based entities, XREF, UNDERLAY, ACAD_TABLE,
    RAY, XLINE. Unsupported entities will be ignored.

Text boundary calculations are based on monospaced (fixed-pitch, fixed-width,
non-proportional) font metrics, which do not provide a good accuracy for text
height calculation and much less accuracy for text width calculation.

It is possible to improve this results by using support from the Python
package `matplotlib`, but this has to be activated explicit::

    from  ezdxf import options

    options.use_matplotlib_font_support = True

This requires a working matplotlib installation else an ``ImportError``
exception will be raised. This feature also depends on the
:mod:`ezdxf.addons.drawing` add-on, which is installed by default.

Install matplotlib from command line::

    pip3 install matplotlib

It is possible to deactivate the matplotlib support at runtime::

     options.use_matplotlib_font_support = False


.. autofunction:: recursive_decompose(entities: Iterable[DXFEntity]) -> Iterable[DXFEntity]

.. autofunction:: to_primitives(entities: Iterable[DXFEntity]) -> Iterable[AbstractPrimitive]

.. autofunction:: to_vertices(primitives: Iterable[AbstractPrimitive]) -> Iterable[Vec3]

.. autofunction:: make_primitive(entity: DXFEntity, max_flattening_distance=None) -> AbstractPrimitive

.. class:: AbstractPrimitive

    Interface class for path/mesh primitives.

    .. attribute:: entity

    Reference to the source DXF entity of this primitive.

    .. attribute:: max_flattening_distance

    The `max_flattening_distance` attribute defines the max distance in drawing
    units between the approximation line and the original curve.
    Set the value by direct attribute access. (float) default = 0.01

    .. autoproperty:: path

    .. autoproperty:: mesh

    .. autoproperty:: is_empty

    .. automethod:: vertices() -> Iterable[Vec3]
