docs/source/dwgmanagement.rst, before:

.. _dwgmanagement:

Drawing Management
==================

Create New Drawings
-------------------

.. function:: ezdxf.new(dxfversion='AC1009')

    Create a new drawing from a template-drawing. The template-drawings are
    located in a template directory, which resides by default in the *ezdxf*
    package subfolder `templates`. The location of the template directory can be changed by
    the global option :attr:`ezdxf.options.template_dir`. *dxfversion* can be either ``'AC1009'``
    the official DXF version name or ``'R12'`` the AutoCAD release name (release name works since ezdxf 0.7.4).
    You can only create new drawings for the following DXF versions:

======= ========================
Version AutoCAD Release
======= ========================
AC1009  AutoCAD R12
AC1015  AutoCAD R2000
AC1018  AutoCAD R2004
AC1021  AutoCAD R2007
AC1024  AutoCAD R2010
AC1027  AutoCAD R2013
======= ========================


Open Drawings
-------------

You can open DXF drawings from disk or from a text-stream. (byte-stream usage
is not implemented yet).

.. function:: ezdxf.readfile(filename, encoding='auto')

    This is the preferred method to open existing DXF files. Read the DXF
    drawing from the file-system with auto-detection of encoding. Decoding
    errors will be ignored. Override encoding detection by setting parameter
    *encoding* to the estimated encoding. (use Python encoding names like in
    the :func:`open` function).

.. function:: ezdxf.read(stream)

    Read DXF drawing from a text-stream, returns a :class:`Drawing` object.
    Open the stream in text mode (`mode='rt'`) and the correct encoding has to be set at the
    open function (in Python 2.7 use :func:`io.open`), the stream requires at least a :meth:`readline` method.
    Since DXF version R2007 (AC1021) file encoding is always 'utf-8'.

Save Drawings
-------------

Save the drawing to the file-system by :meth:`Drawing.save` or :meth:`Drawing.saveas`.
Write the drawing to a text-stream with :meth:`Drawing.write`, the text-stream requires
at least a :meth:`write` method.

.. _globaloptions:

Global Options
--------------

    Global options stored in :mod:`ezdxf.options`

.. attribute:: ezdxf.options.compress_binary_data

    If you don't need access to binary data of DXF entities, you can compress them in memory for a lower
    memory footprint, set the global :code:`ezdxf.options.compress_binary_data = True` to compress binray data
    for every drawing you open, but data compression cost time, so this option isn't active by default.
    You can individually compress the binary data of a drawing with the method :meth:`Drawing.compress_binary_data`.

.. attribute:: ezdxf.options.compress_default_chunks

    There are at least two sections in DXF drawings which are very useless: `THUMBNAILIMAGE` and since AutoCAD 2013
    (AC1027) `ACDSDATA`. They were managed by the simple :class:`DefaultChunk` class, which is just a bunch of dumb
    tags, to save some memory you can compress these default chunks by setting the option
    :code:`ezdxf.options.compress_default_chunks = True`.

.. attribute:: ezdxf.options.templatedir

    Directory where the :meth:`new` function looks for its template file (AC1009.dxf, AC1015.dxf, ...) , default is
    *None*, which means the package subfolder `templates`. But if you want to use your own templates set this option
    :code:`ezdxf.options.template_dir = "my_template_directory"`. But you don't really need this, just open your
    template file with :meth:`ezdxf.readfile` and save the drawing as new file with the :meth:`Drawing.saveas` method.

    This option is very useful if the *ezdxf* package resides in a zip archive.

.. attribute:: ezdxf.options.store_comments

   - preserves the existing comments at the top of the file
   - adds a comment when upgrading the DXF version
   - adds a *'last saved by ezdxf ...'* comment

   Default setting is *True*.

Commit message:

refactoring reorder_coords feature to a legacy mode import layer

docs/source/dwgmanagement.rst, after:

.. _dwgmanagement:

Drawing Management
==================

Create New Drawings
-------------------

.. function:: ezdxf.new(dxfversion='AC1009')

    Create a new drawing from a template-drawing. The template-drawings are
    located in a template directory, which resides by default in the *ezdxf*
    package subfolder `templates`. The location of the template directory can be changed by
    the global option :attr:`ezdxf.options.template_dir`. *dxfversion* can be either ``'AC1009'``
    the official DXF version name or ``'R12'`` the AutoCAD release name (release name works since ezdxf 0.7.4).
    You can only create new drawings for the following DXF versions:

======= ========================
Version AutoCAD Release
======= ========================
AC1009  AutoCAD R12
AC1015  AutoCAD R2000
AC1018  AutoCAD R2004
AC1021  AutoCAD R2007
AC1024  AutoCAD R2010
AC1027  AutoCAD R2013
AC1032  AutoCAD R2018
======= ========================


Open Drawings
-------------

You can open DXF drawings from disk or from a text-stream. (byte-stream usage
is not implemented yet).

.. function:: ezdxf.readfile(filename, encoding='auto', legacy_mode=False)

    This is the preferred method to open existing DXF files. Read the DXF
    drawing from the file-system with auto-detection of encoding. Decoding
    errors will be ignored. Override encoding detection by setting parameter
    *encoding* to the estimated encoding. (use Python encoding names like in
    the :func:`open` function).

    If parameter `legacy_mode` is `True`, ezdxf tries to reorder the coordinates of the LINE entity in DXF files from
    CAD applications which wrote the coordinates in the order: x1, x2, y1, y2. Additional fixes may be added later. The
    legacy mode has a speed penalty of around 5%.

    .. hint::

        Try option `legacy_mode=True` if error "Missing required y coordinate near line: ..." occurs.

.. function:: ezdxf.read(stream, legacy_mode=False)

    Read DXF drawing from a text-stream, returns a :class:`Drawing` object.
    Open the stream in text mode (`mode='rt'`) and the correct encoding has to be set at the
    open function (in Python 2.7 use :func:`io.open`), the stream requires at least a :meth:`readline` method.
    Since DXF version R2007 (AC1021) file encoding is always 'utf-8'.

    If parameter `legacy_mode` is `True`, ezdxf tries to reorder the coordinates of the LINE entity in DXF files from
    CAD applications which wrote the coordinates in the order: x1, x2, y1, y2, see also :meth:`readfile` method.

Save Drawings
-------------

Save the drawing to the file-system by :meth:`Drawing.save` or :meth:`Drawing.saveas`.
Write the drawing to a text-stream with :meth:`Drawing.write`, the text-stream requires
at least a :meth:`write` method.

.. _globaloptions:

Global Options
--------------

    Global options stored in :mod:`ezdxf.options`

.. attribute:: ezdxf.options.compress_binary_data

    If you don't need access to binary data of DXF entities, you can compress them in memory for a lower
    memory footprint, set the global :code:`ezdxf.options.compress_binary_data = True` to compress binray data
    for every drawing you open, but data compression cost time, so this option isn't active by default.
    You can individually compress the binary data of a drawing with the method :meth:`Drawing.compress_binary_data`.

.. attribute:: ezdxf.options.compress_default_chunks

    There are at least two sections in DXF drawings which are very useless: `THUMBNAILIMAGE` and since AutoCAD 2013
    (AC1027) `ACDSDATA`. They were managed by the simple :class:`DefaultChunk` class, which is just a bunch of dumb
    tags, to save some memory you can compress these default chunks by setting the option
    :code:`ezdxf.options.compress_default_chunks = True`.

.. attribute:: ezdxf.options.templatedir

    Directory where the :meth:`new` function looks for its template file (AC1009.dxf, AC1015.dxf, ...) , default is
    *None*, which means the package subfolder `templates`. But if you want to use your own templates set this option
    :code:`ezdxf.options.template_dir = "my_template_directory"`. But you don't really need this, just open your
    template file with :meth:`ezdxf.readfile` and save the drawing as new file with the :meth:`Drawing.saveas` method.

    This option is very useful if the *ezdxf* package resides in a zip archive.

.. attribute:: ezdxf.options.store_comments

   - preserves the existing comments at the top of the file
   - adds a comment when upgrading the DXF version
   - adds a *'last saved by ezdxf ...'* comment

   Default setting is *True*.
