docs/source/path.rst, before:

.. module:: ezdxf.path

Path
====

This module implements a geometric :class:`Path`, supported by several render
backends, with the goal to create such paths from DXF entities like LWPOLYLINE,
POLYLINE or HATCH and send them to the render backend,
see :mod:`ezdxf.addons.drawing`.

Minimum common interface:

- matplotlib: `PathPatch`_
    - matplotlib.path.Path() codes:
    - MOVETO
    - LINETO
    - CURVE3 - quadratic Bèzier-curve
    - CURVE4 - cubic Bèzier-curve

- PyQt: `QPainterPath`_
    - moveTo()
    - lineTo()
    - quadTo() - quadratic Bèzier-curve (converted to a cubic Bèzier-curve)
    - cubicTo() - cubic Bèzier-curve

- PyCairo: `Context`_
    - move_to()
    - line_to()
    - no support for quadratic Bèzier-curve
    - curve_to() - cubic Bèzier-curve

- SVG: `SVG-Path`_
    - "M" - absolute move to
    - "L" - absolute line to
    - "Q" - absolute quadratic Bèzier-curve
    - "C" - absolute cubic Bèzier-curve

ARC and ELLIPSE entities are approximated by multiple cubic Bézier-curves, which
are close enough for display rendering. Non-rational SPLINES of 3rd degree can
be represented exact as multiple cubic Bézier-curves, other B-splines will be
approximated. The XLINE and the RAY entities are not supported, because of their
infinite nature.

This :class:`Path` class is a full featured 3D object, although the backends
only support 2D paths.

.. hint::

    A :class:`Path` can not represent a point. A :class:`Path` with only a
    start point yields no vertices!


The usability of the :class:`Path` class expanded by the introduction
of the reverse conversion from :class:`Path` to DXF entities (LWPOLYLINE,
POLYLINE, LINE), and many other tools in `ezdxf` v0.16.
To emphasize this new usability, the :class:`Path` class has got its own
subpackage :mod:`ezdxf.path`.

.. glossary::

    Empty-Path
        Contains only a start point, the length of the path is 0 and the methods
        :meth:`Path.approximate`, :meth:`Path.flattening` and
        :meth:`Path.control_vertices` do not yield any vertices.

    Single-Path
        The :class:`Path` object contains only one path without gaps, the property
        :attr:`Path.has_sub_paths` is ``False`` and the method
        :meth:`Path.sub_paths` yields only this one path.

    Multi-Path
        The :class:`Path` object contains more than one path, the property
        :attr:`Path.has_sub_paths` is ``True`` and the method
        :meth:`Path.sub_paths` yields all paths within this object as single-path
        objects. It is not possible to detect the orientation of a multi-path
        object, therefore the methods :meth:`Path.has_clockwise_orientation`,
        :meth:`Path.clockwise` and :meth:`Path.counter_clockwise` raise a
        :class:`TypeError` exception.

.. warning::

    Always import from the top level :mod:`ezdxf.path`, never from the
    sub-modules

Factory Functions
-----------------

Functions to create :class:`Path` objects from other objects.

.. function:: make_path(entity: DXFEntity) -> Path

    Factory function to create a single :class:`Path` object from a DXF
    entity. Supported DXF types:

    - LINE
    - CIRCLE
    - ARC
    - ELLIPSE
    - SPLINE and HELIX
    - LWPOLYLINE
    - 2D and 3D POLYLINE
    - SOLID, TRACE, 3DFACE
    - IMAGE, WIPEOUT clipping path
    - VIEWPORT clipping path
    - HATCH as :term:`Multi-Path` object

    :param entity: DXF entity
    :param segments: minimal count of cubic Bézier-curves for elliptical arcs
        like CIRCLE, ARC, ELLIPSE, BULGE see :meth:`Path.add_ellipse`
    :param level: subdivide level for SPLINE approximation,
        see :meth:`Path.add_spline`

    :raises TypeError: for unsupported DXF types


.. autofunction:: from_hatch

.. autofunction:: from_vertices

.. autofunction:: from_matplotlib_path

.. autofunction:: multi_path_from_matplotlib_path

.. autofunction:: from_qpainter_path

.. autofunction:: multi_path_from_qpainter_path

Render Functions
----------------

Functions to create DXF entities from paths and add them to the modelspace, a
paperspace layout or a block definition.

.. autofunction:: render_hatches

.. autofunction:: render_lines

.. autofunction:: render_lwpolylines

.. autofunction:: render_mpolygons

.. autofunction:: render_polylines2d

.. autofunction:: render_polylines3d

.. autofunction:: render_splines_and_polylines

Entity Maker
------------

Functions to create DXF entities from paths.

.. autofunction:: to_hatches

.. autofunction:: to_lines

.. autofunction:: to_lwpolylines

.. autofunction:: to_mpolygons

.. autofunction:: to_polylines2d

.. autofunction:: to_polylines3d

.. autofunction:: to_splines_and_polylines

Tool Maker
----------

Functions to create construction tools.

.. autofunction:: to_bsplines_and_vertices

.. autofunction:: to_matplotlib_path

.. autofunction:: to_qpainter_path


Utility Functions
-----------------

.. autofunction:: add_bezier3p

.. autofunction:: add_bezier4p

.. autofunction:: add_ellipse

.. autofunction:: add_spline

.. autofunction:: bbox

.. autofunction:: chamfer

.. autofunction:: chamfer2

.. autofunction:: fillet

.. autofunction:: fit_paths_into_box

.. autofunction:: have_close_control_vertices

.. autofunction:: lines_to_curve3

.. autofunction:: lines_to_curve4

.. autofunction:: polygonal_fillet

.. autofunction:: single_paths

.. autofunction:: to_multi_path

.. autofunction:: transform_paths

.. autofunction:: transform_paths_to_ocs

.. autofunction:: triangulate

Basic Shapes
------------

.. autofunction:: elliptic_transformation

.. autofunction:: gear

.. autofunction:: helix

.. autofunction:: ngon

.. autofunction:: rect

.. autofunction:: star

.. autofunction:: unit_circle

.. autofunction:: wedge

The :mod:`~ezdxf.addons.text2path` add-on provides additional functions to
create paths from text strings and DXF text entities.


The Path Class
--------------

.. class:: Path

    .. autoproperty:: end

    .. autoproperty:: has_curves

    .. autoproperty:: has_lines

    .. autoproperty:: has_sub_paths

    .. autoproperty:: is_closed

    .. autoproperty:: start

    .. autoproperty:: user_data

    .. automethod:: append_path

    .. automethod:: approximate

    .. automethod:: clockwise

    .. automethod:: clone

    .. automethod:: close

    .. automethod:: close_sub_path

    .. automethod:: control_vertices

    .. automethod:: counter_clockwise

    .. automethod:: curve3_to

    .. automethod:: curve4_to

    .. automethod:: extend_multi_path

    .. automethod:: flattening

    .. automethod:: has_clockwise_orientation

    .. automethod:: line_to

    .. automethod:: move_to

    .. automethod:: reversed

    .. automethod:: sub_paths

    .. automethod:: transform

.. _PathPatch: https://matplotlib.org/3.1.1/api/_as_gen/matplotlib.patches.PathPatch.html#matplotlib.patches.PathPatch
.. _QPainterPath: https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/qpainterpath.html
.. _SVG-Path: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Tutorial/Paths
.. _Context: https://pycairo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/context.html

Commit message:

optimize Vec2 processing
add Matrix44.from_2d_transformation() constructor
refactor path type conversion
add specialized transform() methods to Path and Path2d classes
add profiling for fast_2d_transform()

docs/source/path.rst, after:

.. module:: ezdxf.path

Path
====

This module implements a geometric :class:`Path`, supported by several render
backends, with the goal to create such paths from DXF entities like LWPOLYLINE,
POLYLINE or HATCH and send them to the render backend,
see :mod:`ezdxf.addons.drawing`.

Minimum common interface:

- matplotlib: `PathPatch`_
    - matplotlib.path.Path() codes:
    - MOVETO
    - LINETO
    - CURVE3 - quadratic Bèzier-curve
    - CURVE4 - cubic Bèzier-curve

- PyQt: `QPainterPath`_
    - moveTo()
    - lineTo()
    - quadTo() - quadratic Bèzier-curve (converted to a cubic Bèzier-curve)
    - cubicTo() - cubic Bèzier-curve

- PyCairo: `Context`_
    - move_to()
    - line_to()
    - no support for quadratic Bèzier-curve
    - curve_to() - cubic Bèzier-curve

- SVG: `SVG-Path`_
    - "M" - absolute move to
    - "L" - absolute line to
    - "Q" - absolute quadratic Bèzier-curve
    - "C" - absolute cubic Bèzier-curve

ARC and ELLIPSE entities are approximated by multiple cubic Bézier-curves, which
are close enough for display rendering. Non-rational SPLINES of 3rd degree can
be represented exact as multiple cubic Bézier-curves, other B-splines will be
approximated. The XLINE and the RAY entities are not supported, because of their
infinite nature.

This :class:`Path` class is a full featured 3D object, although the backends
only support 2D paths.

.. hint::

    A :class:`Path` can not represent a point. A :class:`Path` with only a
    start point yields no vertices!


The usability of the :class:`Path` class expanded by the introduction
of the reverse conversion from :class:`Path` to DXF entities (LWPOLYLINE,
POLYLINE, LINE), and many other tools in `ezdxf` v0.16.
To emphasize this new usability, the :class:`Path` class has got its own
subpackage :mod:`ezdxf.path`.

.. glossary::

    Empty-Path
        Contains only a start point, the length of the path is 0 and the methods
        :meth:`Path.approximate`, :meth:`Path.flattening` and
        :meth:`Path.control_vertices` do not yield any vertices.

    Single-Path
        The :class:`Path` object contains only one path without gaps, the property
        :attr:`Path.has_sub_paths` is ``False`` and the method
        :meth:`Path.sub_paths` yields only this one path.

    Multi-Path
        The :class:`Path` object contains more than one path, the property
        :attr:`Path.has_sub_paths` is ``True`` and the method
        :meth:`Path.sub_paths` yields all paths within this object as single-path
        objects. It is not possible to detect the orientation of a multi-path
        object, therefore the methods :meth:`Path.has_clockwise_orientation`,
        :meth:`Path.clockwise` and :meth:`Path.counter_clockwise` raise a
        :class:`TypeError` exception.

.. warning::

    Always import from the top level :mod:`ezdxf.path`, never from the
    sub-modules

Factory Functions
-----------------

Functions to create :class:`Path` objects from other objects.

.. function:: make_path(entity: DXFEntity) -> Path

    Factory function to create a single :class:`Path` object from a DXF
    entity. Supported DXF types:

    - LINE
    - CIRCLE
    - ARC
    - ELLIPSE
    - SPLINE and HELIX
    - LWPOLYLINE
    - 2D and 3D POLYLINE
    - SOLID, TRACE, 3DFACE
    - IMAGE, WIPEOUT clipping path
    - VIEWPORT clipping path
    - HATCH as :term:`Multi-Path` object

    :param entity: DXF entity
    :param segments: minimal count of cubic Bézier-curves for elliptical arcs
        like CIRCLE, ARC, ELLIPSE, BULGE see :meth:`Path.add_ellipse`
    :param level: subdivide level for SPLINE approximation,
        see :meth:`Path.add_spline`

    :raises TypeError: for unsupported DXF types


.. autofunction:: from_hatch

.. autofunction:: from_vertices

.. autofunction:: from_matplotlib_path

.. autofunction:: multi_path_from_matplotlib_path

.. autofunction:: from_qpainter_path

.. autofunction:: multi_path_from_qpainter_path

Render Functions
----------------

Functions to create DXF entities from paths and add them to the modelspace, a
paperspace layout or a block definition.

.. autofunction:: render_hatches

.. autofunction:: render_lines

.. autofunction:: render_lwpolylines

.. autofunction:: render_mpolygons

.. autofunction:: render_polylines2d

.. autofunction:: render_polylines3d

.. autofunction:: render_splines_and_polylines

Entity Maker
------------

Functions to create DXF entities from paths.

.. autofunction:: to_hatches

.. autofunction:: to_lines

.. autofunction:: to_lwpolylines

.. autofunction:: to_mpolygons

.. autofunction:: to_polylines2d

.. autofunction:: to_polylines3d

.. autofunction:: to_splines_and_polylines

Tool Maker
----------

Functions to create construction tools.

.. autofunction:: to_bsplines_and_vertices

.. autofunction:: to_matplotlib_path

.. autofunction:: to_qpainter_path


Utility Functions
-----------------

.. autofunction:: add_bezier3p

.. autofunction:: add_bezier4p

.. autofunction:: add_ellipse

.. autofunction:: add_spline

.. autofunction:: bbox

.. autofunction:: chamfer

.. autofunction:: chamfer2

.. autofunction:: fillet

.. autofunction:: fit_paths_into_box

.. autofunction:: have_close_control_vertices

.. autofunction:: lines_to_curve3

.. autofunction:: lines_to_curve4

.. autofunction:: polygonal_fillet

.. autofunction:: single_paths

.. autofunction:: to_multi_path

.. autofunction:: transform_paths

.. autofunction:: transform_paths_to_ocs

.. autofunction:: triangulate

Basic Shapes
------------

.. autofunction:: elliptic_transformation

.. autofunction:: gear

.. autofunction:: helix

.. autofunction:: ngon

.. autofunction:: rect

.. autofunction:: star

.. autofunction:: unit_circle

.. autofunction:: wedge

The :mod:`~ezdxf.addons.text2path` add-on provides additional functions to
create paths from text strings and DXF text entities.


The Path Class
--------------

.. class:: Path

    This class inherits from the abstract base class :class:`AbstractPath` and
    defines the generic type :class:`T` as :class:`~ezdxf.math.Vec3`.

    .. autoproperty:: end

    .. autoproperty:: has_curves

    .. autoproperty:: has_lines

    .. autoproperty:: has_sub_paths

    .. autoproperty:: is_closed

    .. autoproperty:: start

    .. autoproperty:: user_data

    .. automethod:: append_path

    .. automethod:: approximate

    .. automethod:: clockwise

    .. automethod:: clone

    .. automethod:: close

    .. automethod:: close_sub_path

    .. automethod:: control_vertices

    .. automethod:: counter_clockwise

    .. automethod:: curve3_to

    .. automethod:: curve4_to

    .. automethod:: extend_multi_path

    .. automethod:: flattening

    .. automethod:: has_clockwise_orientation

    .. automethod:: line_to

    .. automethod:: move_to

    .. automethod:: reversed

    .. automethod:: sub_paths

    .. automethod:: transform

    .. automethod:: to_2d_path

The 2D Path Class
-----------------

.. class:: Path2d

    .. versionadded:: 1.1

    This class was added mainly for internal use. The processing of this class is no
    faster than for the 3D :class:`Path` class, in c-extensions an extra
    floating point operation for the 3rd axis isn't really noticeable, but consumes less
    memory, which was the primary goal and it can avoid unnecessary type conversions,
    when working in pure 2D scenarios.

    This class inherits from the abstract base class :class:`AbstractPath` and
    defines the generic type :class:`T` as :class:`~ezdxf.math.Vec2`.

    The class supports the same interface as the :class:`Path` class.

    .. automethod:: to_3d_path

.. _PathPatch: https://matplotlib.org/3.1.1/api/_as_gen/matplotlib.patches.PathPatch.html#matplotlib.patches.PathPatch
.. _QPainterPath: https://doc.qt.io/qt-5/qpainterpath.html
.. _SVG-Path: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Tutorial/Paths
.. _Context: https://pycairo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/context.html
