docs/source/howto/drawing-addon.rst, before:

.. _how_to_drawing_addon:

Drawing Add-on
==============

This section consolidates the `FAQ`_ about the drawing add-on from the github
forum.

All Backends
------------

.. _how_to_set_bg_and_fg_colors:

How to Set Background and Foreground Colors
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Override the default background and foreground colors.  The foreground color is
the :ref:`ACI` 7, which is white/black depending on the background color.
If the foreground color is not specified, the foreground color is white for dark
backgrounds and black for light backgrounds.  The required color format is
a hex string "#RRGGBBAA".

.. code-block:: Python

    from ezdxf.addons.drawing.properties import LayoutProperties

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    fig: plt.Figure = plt.figure()
    ax: plt.Axes = fig.add_axes((0, 0, 1, 1))
    ctx = RenderContext(doc)

    # get the modelspace properties
    msp_properties = LayoutProperties.from_layout(msp)

    # set light gray background color and black foreground color
    msp_properties.set_colors("#eaeaea")
    out = MatplotlibBackend(ax)

    # override the layout properties and render the modelspace
    Frontend(ctx, out).draw_layout(
        msp,
        finalize=True,
        layout_properties=msp_properties,
    )
    fig.savefig("image.png")

A light background "#eaeaea" has a black foreground color by default:

.. image:: gfx/bg0.png
    :align: center

A dark background "#0a0a0a" has a white foreground color by default:

.. code-block:: Python

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    msp_properties.set_colors("#0a0a0a")

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

.. image:: gfx/bg1.png
    :align: center

.. _how_to_set_transparent_bg_color:

How to Set a Transparent Background Color
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The override color include an alpha transparency "#RRGGBBAA" value. An alpha
value of "00" is opaque and "ff" is fully transparent.
A transparent background color still defines the foreground color!

.. hint::

    The :func:`savefig` function of the matplotlib backend requires the
    `transparent` argument to be set to ``True`` to support transparency.

A light and fully transparent background "#eaeaeaff" has a black foreground
color by default:

.. code-block:: Python

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    msp_properties.set_colors("#eaeaeaff")

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    fig.savefig("image.png", transparent=True)

.. image:: gfx/bg2.png
    :align: center

A dark and fully transparent background "#0a0a0aff" has a **white**
foreground color by default:

.. code-block:: Python

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    msp_properties.set_colors("#0a0a0aff")

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    fig.savefig("image.png", transparent=True)

.. image:: gfx/bg3.png
    :align: center

.. _how_to_exclude_entities_from_rendering:

How to Exclude DXF Entities from Rendering
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

- If all unwanted entities are on the same layer switch off the layer.
- If the document is not saved later, you can delete the entities or set them
  invisible.
- Filter the unwanted entities by a filter function.

The argument `filter_func` of the :meth:`Frontend.draw_layout` method expects a
function which takes a graphical DXF entity as input and returns ``True`` if the
entity should be rendered or ``False`` to exclude the entity from rendering.

This filter function excludes all DXF entities with an ACI color value of 2:

.. code-block:: Python

    from ezdxf.entities import DXFGraphic

    def my_filter(e: DXFGraphic) -> bool:
        return e.dxf.color != 2

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    Frontend(ctx, out).draw_layout(msp, finalize=True, filter_func=my_filter)

.. important::

    Not all attributes have a default value if the attribute does not exist.
    If you are not sure about this, use the :meth:`get` method::

        def my_filter(e: DXFGraphic) -> bool:
            return e.dxf.get("color", 7) != 2

.. _how_to_override_dxf_properties:

How to Override Properties of DXF Entities
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Create a custom :class:`Frontend` class and override the the
:meth:`override_properties` method:

.. code-block:: Python

    class MyFrontend(Frontend):
        def override_properties(self, entity: DXFGraphic, properties: Properties) -> None:
            # remove alpha channel from all entities, "#RRGGBBAA"
            properties.color = properties.color[:7]

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    MyFrontend(ctx, out).draw_layout(msp, finalize=True)

.. seealso::

    - :class:`ezdxf.addons.drawing.properties.Properties`

Matplotlib Backend
------------------

.. seealso::

    - Matplotlib package: https://matplotlib.org/stable/api/matplotlib_configuration_api.html
    - :class:`Figure` API: https://matplotlib.org/stable/api/figure_api.html
    - :class:`Axes` API: https://matplotlib.org/stable/api/axis_api.html

.. _matplotlib_how_to_get_pixel_coordinates:

How to Get the Pixel Coordinates of DXF Entities
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

.. seealso::

    - Source: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/discussions/219

Transformation from modelspace coordinates to image coordinates:

.. code-block:: Python

    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    from PIL import Image, ImageDraw

    import ezdxf
    from ezdxf.math import Matrix44
    from ezdxf.addons.drawing import RenderContext, Frontend
    from ezdxf.addons.drawing.matplotlib import MatplotlibBackend

    def get_wcs_to_image_transform(
        ax: plt.Axes, image_size: tuple[int, int]
    ) -> Matrix44:
        """Returns the transformation matrix from modelspace coordinates to image
        coordinates.
        """

        x1, x2 = ax.get_xlim()
        y1, y2 = ax.get_ylim()
        data_width, data_height = x2 - x1, y2 - y1
        image_width, image_height = image_size
        return (
            Matrix44.translate(-x1, -y1, 0)
            @ Matrix44.scale(
                image_width / data_width, -image_height / data_height, 1.0
            )
            # +1 to counteract the effect of the pixels being flipped in y
            @ Matrix44.translate(0, image_height + 1, 0)
        )

    # create the DXF document
    doc = ezdxf.new()
    msp = doc.modelspace()
    msp.add_lwpolyline([(0, 0), (1, 0), (1, 1), (0, 1)], close=True)
    msp.add_line((0, 0), (1, 1))

    # export the pixel image
    fig: plt.Figure = plt.figure()
    ax: plt.Axes = fig.add_axes([0, 0, 1, 1])
    ctx = RenderContext(doc)
    out = MatplotlibBackend(ax)
    Frontend(ctx, out).draw_layout(msp, finalize=True)
    fig.savefig("cad.png")
    plt.close(fig)

    # reload the pixel image by Pillow (PIL)
    img = Image.open("cad.png")
    draw = ImageDraw.Draw(img)

    # add some annotations to the pixel image by using modelspace coordinates
    m = get_wcs_to_image_transform(ax, img.size)
    a, b, c = (
        (v.x, v.y)  # draw.line() expects tuple[float, float] as coordinates
        # transform modelspace coordinates to image coordinates
        for v in m.transform_vertices([(0.25, 0.75), (0.75, 0.25), (1, 1)])
    )
    draw.line([a, b, c, a], fill=(255, 0, 0))

    # show the image by the default image viewer
    img.show()

.. _matplotlib_how_to_get_msp_coordinates:

How to Get Modelspace Coordinates from Pixel Coordinates
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This is the reverse operation of the previous how-to: :ref:`matplotlib_how_to_get_pixel_coordinates`

.. seealso::

    - Full example script: `wcs_to_image_coordinates.py`_
    - Source: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/discussions/269

.. code-block:: Python

    def get_image_to_wcs_transform(
        ax: plt.Axes, image_size: tuple[int, int]
    ) -> Matrix44:
        m = get_wcs_to_image_transform(ax, image_size)
        m.inverse()
        return m

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    img2wcs = get_image_to_wcs_transform(ax, img.size)
    print(f"0.25, 0.75 == {img2wcs.transform(a).round(2)}")
    print(f"0.75, 0.25 == {img2wcs.transform(b).round(2)}")
    print(f"1.00, 1.00 == {img2wcs.transform(c).round(2)}")


.. _matplotlib_export_specific_area:

How to Export a Specific Area of the Modelspace
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This code exports the specified modelspace area from (5, 3) to (7, 8) as a
2x5 inch PNG image to maintain the aspect ratio of the source area.

Use case: render only a specific area of the modelspace.

.. seealso::

    - Full example script: `export_specific_area.py`_
    - Source: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/discussions/451

.. code-block:: Python

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    # export the pixel image
    fig: plt.Figure = plt.figure()
    ax: plt.Axes = fig.add_axes([0, 0, 1, 1])
    ctx = RenderContext(doc)
    out = MatplotlibBackend(ax)
    Frontend(ctx, out).draw_layout(msp, finalize=True)

    # setting the export area:
    xmin, xmax = 5, 7
    ymin, ymax = 3, 8
    ax.set_xlim(xmin, xmax)
    ax.set_ylim(ymin, ymax)

    # set the output size to get the expected aspect ratio:
    fig.set_size_inches(xmax - xmin, ymax - ymin)
    fig.savefig("x5y3_to_x7y8.png")
    plt.close(fig)

.. _matplotlib_render_without_Margin:

How to Render Without Margins
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To remove the empty space at the image borders set the margins of the
:class:`Axes` object to zero:

.. code-block:: Python

    ax.margins(0)
    fig.savefig("image_without_margins.png")
    plt.close(fig)

.. seealso::

    - Matplotlib docs about `margins`_

.. _matplotlib_export_pixel_density:

How to Set the Pixel Count per Drawing Unit
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This code exports the modelspace with an extent of 5 x 3 drawing units with
100 pixels per drawing unit as a 500 x 300 pixel image.

Use case: render the content with a fixed number of pixels for a drawing unit,
e.g. a drawing unit of 1 inch should be rendered by 100 pixels.

.. seealso::

    - Full example script: `export_image_pixel_size.py`_
    - Source: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/discussions/357

.. code-block:: Python

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    def set_pixel_density(fig: plt.Figure, ax: plt.Axes, ppu: int):
        """Argument `ppu` is pixels per drawing unit."""
        xmin, xmax = ax.get_xlim()
        width = xmax - xmin
        ymin, ymax = ax.get_ylim()
        height = ymax - ymin
        dpi = fig.dpi
        width_inch = width * ppu / dpi
        height_inch = height * ppu / dpi
        fig.set_size_inches(width_inch, height_inch)

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    # export image with 100 pixels per drawing unit = 500x300 pixels
    set_pixel_density(fig, ax, 100)
    fig.savefig("box_500x300.png")
    plt.close(fig)

.. _matplotlib_export_pixel_size:

How to Export a Specific Image Size in Pixels
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This code exports the modelspace with an extent of 5 x 3 drawing units as a
1000 x 600 pixel Image.

Use case: render the content with a fixed image size in pixels.

.. seealso::

    - Full example script: `export_image_pixel_size.py`_
    - Source: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/discussions/357

.. code-block:: Python

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    def set_pixel_size(fig: plt.Figure, size: tuple[int, int]):
        x, y = size
        fig.set_size_inches(x / fig.dpi, y / fig.dpi)

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    # export image with a size of 1000x600 pixels
    set_pixel_size(fig, (1000, 600))
    fig.savefig("box_1000x600.png")
    plt.close(fig)

.. _matplotlib_set_page_size_in_inches:

How to Set the Page Size in Inches
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The page- or image size in inches is set by the :meth:`set_size_inches` method
of the :class:`Figure` class. The content within the :class:`Axes` limits will
be scaled to fill the page.

Use case: render the whole content to a PDF document with a specific paper size
without worrying about scale.

.. code-block:: Python

    fig.set_size_inches(8, 11)

.. _matplotlib_render_at_scale:

How to Render at a Specific Scale
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This code exports the modelspace at a specific scale and paper size.

Use case: render the content to a PDF document with a specific paper size and
scale, but not all content may be rendered.

.. seealso::

    - Full example script: `render_to_scale.py`_
    - Source: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/discussions/665

.. code-block:: Python

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    def render_limits(
        origin: tuple[float, float],
        size_in_inches: tuple[float, float],
        scale: float,
    ) -> tuple[float, float, float, float]:
        """Returns the final render limits in drawing units.

        Args:
             origin: lower left corner of the modelspace area to render
             size_in_inches: paper size in inches
             scale: render scale, e.g. scale=100 means 1:100, 1m is
                 rendered as 0.01m or 1cm on paper

        """
        min_x, min_y = origin
        max_x = min_x + size_in_inches[0] * scale
        max_y = min_y + size_in_inches[1] * scale
        return min_x, min_y, max_x, max_y


    def export_to_scale(
        paper_size: tuple[float, float] = (8.5, 11),
        origin: tuple[float, float] = (0, 0),
        scale: float = 1,
        dpi: int = 300,
    ):
        """Render the modelspace content with to a specific paper size and scale.

        Args:
            paper_size: paper size in inches
            origin: lower left corner of the modelspace area to render
            scale: render scale, e.g. scale=100 means 1:100, 1m is
                rendered as 0.01m or 1cm on paper
            dpi: pixel density on paper as dots per inch

        """
        # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

        ctx = RenderContext(doc)
        fig: plt.Figure = plt.figure(dpi=dpi)
        ax: plt.Axes = fig.add_axes([0, 0, 1, 1])

        # disable all margins
        ax.margins(0)

        # get the final render limits in drawing units:
        min_x, min_y, max_x, max_y = render_limits(
            origin, paper_size, scale
        )

        ax.set_xlim(min_x, max_x)
        ax.set_ylim(min_y, max_y)

        out = MatplotlibBackend(ax)
        # finalizing invokes auto-scaling by default!
        Frontend(ctx, out).draw_layout(msp, finalize=False)

        # set output size in inches:
        fig.set_size_inches(paper_size[0], paper_size[1], forward=True)

        fig.savefig(f"image_scale_1_{scale}.pdf", dpi=dpi)
        plt.close(fig)



.. _FAQ: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/discussions/550
.. _wcs_to_image_coordinates.py: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/blob/master/examples/addons/drawing/wcs_to_image_coodinates.py
.. _export_specific_area.py: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/blob/master/examples/addons/drawing/export_specific_area.py
.. _export_image_pixel_size.py: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/blob/master/examples/addons/drawing/export_image_pixel_size.py
.. _margins: https://matplotlib.org/stable/api/_as_gen/matplotlib.axes.Axes.margins.html
.. _render_to_scale.py: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/blob/master/examples/addons/drawing/render_to_scale.py

Commit message:

add a howto for the drawing add-on

docs/source/howto/drawing-addon.rst, after:

.. _how_to_drawing_addon:

Drawing Add-on
==============

This section consolidates the `FAQ`_ about the drawing add-on from the github
forum.

All Backends
------------

.. _how_to_set_bg_and_fg_colors:

How to Set Background and Foreground Colors
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Override the default background and foreground colors.  The foreground color is
the :ref:`ACI` 7, which is white/black depending on the background color.
If the foreground color is not specified, the foreground color is white for dark
backgrounds and black for light backgrounds.  The required color format is
a hex string "#RRGGBBAA".

.. code-block:: Python

    from ezdxf.addons.drawing.properties import LayoutProperties

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    fig: plt.Figure = plt.figure()
    ax: plt.Axes = fig.add_axes((0, 0, 1, 1))
    ctx = RenderContext(doc)

    # get the modelspace properties
    msp_properties = LayoutProperties.from_layout(msp)

    # set light gray background color and black foreground color
    msp_properties.set_colors("#eaeaea")
    out = MatplotlibBackend(ax)

    # override the layout properties and render the modelspace
    Frontend(ctx, out).draw_layout(
        msp,
        finalize=True,
        layout_properties=msp_properties,
    )
    fig.savefig("image.png")

A light background "#eaeaea" has a black foreground color by default:

.. image:: gfx/bg0.png
    :align: center

A dark background "#0a0a0a" has a white foreground color by default:

.. code-block:: Python

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    msp_properties.set_colors("#0a0a0a")

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

.. image:: gfx/bg1.png
    :align: center

.. _how_to_set_transparent_bg_color:

How to Set a Transparent Background Color
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The override color include an alpha transparency "#RRGGBBAA" value. An alpha
value of "00" is opaque and "ff" is fully transparent.
A transparent background color still defines the foreground color!

.. hint::

    The :func:`savefig` function of the matplotlib backend requires the
    `transparent` argument to be set to ``True`` to support transparency.

A light and fully transparent background "#eaeaeaff" has a black foreground
color by default:

.. code-block:: Python

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    msp_properties.set_colors("#eaeaeaff")

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    fig.savefig("image.png", transparent=True)

.. image:: gfx/bg2.png
    :align: center

A dark and fully transparent background "#0a0a0aff" has a **white**
foreground color by default:

.. code-block:: Python

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    msp_properties.set_colors("#0a0a0aff")

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    fig.savefig("image.png", transparent=True)

.. image:: gfx/bg3.png
    :align: center

.. _how_to_exclude_entities_from_rendering:

How to Exclude DXF Entities from Rendering
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

- If all unwanted entities are on the same layer switch off the layer.
- If the document is not saved later, you can delete the entities or set them
  invisible.
- Filter the unwanted entities by a filter function.

The argument `filter_func` of the :meth:`Frontend.draw_layout` method expects a
function which takes a graphical DXF entity as input and returns ``True`` if the
entity should be rendered or ``False`` to exclude the entity from rendering.

This filter function excludes all DXF entities with an ACI color value of 2:

.. code-block:: Python

    from ezdxf.entities import DXFGraphic

    def my_filter(e: DXFGraphic) -> bool:
        return e.dxf.color != 2

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    Frontend(ctx, out).draw_layout(msp, finalize=True, filter_func=my_filter)

.. important::

    Not all attributes have a default value if the attribute does not exist.
    If you are not sure about this, use the :meth:`get` method::

        def my_filter(e: DXFGraphic) -> bool:
            return e.dxf.get("color", 7) != 2

.. _how_to_override_dxf_properties:

How to Override Properties of DXF Entities
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Create a custom :class:`Frontend` class and override the the
:meth:`override_properties` method:

.. code-block:: Python

    class MyFrontend(Frontend):
        def override_properties(self, entity: DXFGraphic, properties: Properties) -> None:
            # remove alpha channel from all entities, "#RRGGBBAA"
            properties.color = properties.color[:7]

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    MyFrontend(ctx, out).draw_layout(msp, finalize=True)

.. seealso::

    - :class:`ezdxf.addons.drawing.properties.Properties`

Matplotlib Backend
------------------

.. seealso::

    - Matplotlib package: https://matplotlib.org/stable/api/matplotlib_configuration_api.html
    - :class:`Figure` API: https://matplotlib.org/stable/api/figure_api.html
    - :class:`Axes` API: https://matplotlib.org/stable/api/axis_api.html

.. _matplotlib_how_to_get_pixel_coordinates:

How to Get the Pixel Coordinates of DXF Entities
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

.. seealso::

    - Source: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/discussions/219

Transformation from modelspace coordinates to image coordinates:

.. code-block:: Python

    import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
    from PIL import Image, ImageDraw

    import ezdxf
    from ezdxf.math import Matrix44
    from ezdxf.addons.drawing import RenderContext, Frontend
    from ezdxf.addons.drawing.matplotlib import MatplotlibBackend

    def get_wcs_to_image_transform(
        ax: plt.Axes, image_size: tuple[int, int]
    ) -> Matrix44:
        """Returns the transformation matrix from modelspace coordinates to image
        coordinates.
        """

        x1, x2 = ax.get_xlim()
        y1, y2 = ax.get_ylim()
        data_width, data_height = x2 - x1, y2 - y1
        image_width, image_height = image_size
        return (
            Matrix44.translate(-x1, -y1, 0)
            @ Matrix44.scale(
                image_width / data_width, -image_height / data_height, 1.0
            )
            # +1 to counteract the effect of the pixels being flipped in y
            @ Matrix44.translate(0, image_height + 1, 0)
        )

    # create the DXF document
    doc = ezdxf.new()
    msp = doc.modelspace()
    msp.add_lwpolyline([(0, 0), (1, 0), (1, 1), (0, 1)], close=True)
    msp.add_line((0, 0), (1, 1))

    # export the pixel image
    fig: plt.Figure = plt.figure()
    ax: plt.Axes = fig.add_axes([0, 0, 1, 1])
    ctx = RenderContext(doc)
    out = MatplotlibBackend(ax)
    Frontend(ctx, out).draw_layout(msp, finalize=True)
    fig.savefig("cad.png")
    plt.close(fig)

    # reload the pixel image by Pillow (PIL)
    img = Image.open("cad.png")
    draw = ImageDraw.Draw(img)

    # add some annotations to the pixel image by using modelspace coordinates
    m = get_wcs_to_image_transform(ax, img.size)
    a, b, c = (
        (v.x, v.y)  # draw.line() expects tuple[float, float] as coordinates
        # transform modelspace coordinates to image coordinates
        for v in m.transform_vertices([(0.25, 0.75), (0.75, 0.25), (1, 1)])
    )
    draw.line([a, b, c, a], fill=(255, 0, 0))

    # show the image by the default image viewer
    img.show()

.. _matplotlib_how_to_get_msp_coordinates:

How to Get Modelspace Coordinates from Pixel Coordinates
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This is the reverse operation of the previous how-to: :ref:`matplotlib_how_to_get_pixel_coordinates`

.. seealso::

    - Full example script: `wcs_to_image_coordinates.py`_
    - Source: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/discussions/269

.. code-block:: Python

    def get_image_to_wcs_transform(
        ax: plt.Axes, image_size: tuple[int, int]
    ) -> Matrix44:
        m = get_wcs_to_image_transform(ax, image_size)
        m.inverse()
        return m

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    img2wcs = get_image_to_wcs_transform(ax, img.size)
    print(f"0.25, 0.75 == {img2wcs.transform(a).round(2)}")
    print(f"0.75, 0.25 == {img2wcs.transform(b).round(2)}")
    print(f"1.00, 1.00 == {img2wcs.transform(c).round(2)}")


.. _matplotlib_export_specific_area:

How to Export a Specific Area of the Modelspace
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This code exports the specified modelspace area from (5, 3) to (7, 8) as a
2x5 inch PNG image to maintain the aspect ratio of the source area.

Use case: render only a specific area of the modelspace.

.. seealso::

    - Full example script: `export_specific_area.py`_
    - Source: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/discussions/451

.. code-block:: Python

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    # export the pixel image
    fig: plt.Figure = plt.figure()
    ax: plt.Axes = fig.add_axes([0, 0, 1, 1])
    ctx = RenderContext(doc)
    out = MatplotlibBackend(ax)
    Frontend(ctx, out).draw_layout(msp, finalize=True)

    # setting the export area:
    xmin, xmax = 5, 7
    ymin, ymax = 3, 8
    ax.set_xlim(xmin, xmax)
    ax.set_ylim(ymin, ymax)

    # set the output size to get the expected aspect ratio:
    fig.set_size_inches(xmax - xmin, ymax - ymin)
    fig.savefig("x5y3_to_x7y8.png")
    plt.close(fig)

.. _matplotlib_render_without_Margin:

How to Render Without Margins
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To remove the empty space at the image borders set the margins of the
:class:`Axes` object to zero:

.. code-block:: Python

    ax.margins(0)
    fig.savefig("image_without_margins.png")
    plt.close(fig)

.. seealso::

    - Matplotlib docs about `margins`_

.. _matplotlib_export_pixel_density:

How to Set the Pixel Count per Drawing Unit
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This code exports the modelspace with an extent of 5 x 3 drawing units with
100 pixels per drawing unit as a 500 x 300 pixel image.

Use case: render the content with a fixed number of pixels for a drawing unit,
e.g. a drawing unit of 1 inch should be rendered by 100 pixels.

.. seealso::

    - Full example script: `export_image_pixel_size.py`_
    - Source: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/discussions/357

.. code-block:: Python

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    def set_pixel_density(fig: plt.Figure, ax: plt.Axes, ppu: int):
        """Argument `ppu` is pixels per drawing unit."""
        xmin, xmax = ax.get_xlim()
        width = xmax - xmin
        ymin, ymax = ax.get_ylim()
        height = ymax - ymin
        dpi = fig.dpi
        width_inch = width * ppu / dpi
        height_inch = height * ppu / dpi
        fig.set_size_inches(width_inch, height_inch)

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    # export image with 100 pixels per drawing unit = 500x300 pixels
    set_pixel_density(fig, ax, 100)
    fig.savefig("box_500x300.png")
    plt.close(fig)

.. _matplotlib_export_pixel_size:

How to Export a Specific Image Size in Pixels
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This code exports the modelspace with an extent of 5 x 3 drawing units as a
1000 x 600 pixel Image.

Use case: render the content with a fixed image size in pixels.

.. seealso::

    - Full example script: `export_image_pixel_size.py`_
    - Source: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/discussions/357

.. code-block:: Python

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    def set_pixel_size(fig: plt.Figure, size: tuple[int, int]):
        x, y = size
        fig.set_size_inches(x / fig.dpi, y / fig.dpi)

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    # export image with a size of 1000x600 pixels
    set_pixel_size(fig, (1000, 600))
    fig.savefig("box_1000x600.png")
    plt.close(fig)

.. _matplotlib_set_page_size_in_inches:

How to Set the Page Size in Inches
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The page- or image size in inches is set by the :meth:`set_size_inches` method
of the :class:`Figure` class. The content within the :class:`Axes` limits will
be scaled to fill the page.

Use case: render the whole content to a PDF document with a specific paper size
without worrying about scale.

.. code-block:: Python

    fig.set_size_inches(8, 11)

.. _matplotlib_render_at_scale:

How to Render at a Specific Scale
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

This code exports the modelspace at a specific scale and paper size.

Use case: render the content to a PDF document with a specific paper size and
scale, but not all content may be rendered.

.. seealso::

    - Full example script: `render_to_scale.py`_
    - Source: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/discussions/665

.. code-block:: Python

    # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

    def render_limits(
        origin: tuple[float, float],
        size_in_inches: tuple[float, float],
        scale: float,
    ) -> tuple[float, float, float, float]:
        """Returns the final render limits in drawing units.

        Args:
             origin: lower left corner of the modelspace area to render
             size_in_inches: paper size in inches
             scale: render scale, e.g. scale=100 means 1:100, 1m is
                 rendered as 0.01m or 1cm on paper

        """
        min_x, min_y = origin
        max_x = min_x + size_in_inches[0] * scale
        max_y = min_y + size_in_inches[1] * scale
        return min_x, min_y, max_x, max_y


    def export_to_scale(
        paper_size: tuple[float, float] = (8.5, 11),
        origin: tuple[float, float] = (0, 0),
        scale: float = 1,
        dpi: int = 300,
    ):
        """Render the modelspace content with to a specific paper size and scale.

        Args:
            paper_size: paper size in inches
            origin: lower left corner of the modelspace area to render
            scale: render scale, e.g. scale=100 means 1:100, 1m is
                rendered as 0.01m or 1cm on paper
            dpi: pixel density on paper as dots per inch

        """
        # -x-x-x snip -x-x-x-

        ctx = RenderContext(doc)
        fig: plt.Figure = plt.figure(dpi=dpi)
        ax: plt.Axes = fig.add_axes([0, 0, 1, 1])

        # disable all margins
        ax.margins(0)

        # get the final render limits in drawing units:
        min_x, min_y, max_x, max_y = render_limits(
            origin, paper_size, scale
        )

        ax.set_xlim(min_x, max_x)
        ax.set_ylim(min_y, max_y)

        out = MatplotlibBackend(ax)
        # finalizing invokes auto-scaling by default!
        Frontend(ctx, out).draw_layout(msp, finalize=False)

        # set output size in inches:
        fig.set_size_inches(paper_size[0], paper_size[1], forward=True)

        fig.savefig(f"image_scale_1_{scale}.pdf", dpi=dpi)
        plt.close(fig)


.. _matplotlib_how_to_control_the_line_width:

How to Control the Line Width
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The DXF :attr:`lineweight` attribute defines the line width as absolute width on the
output medium (e.g. 25 = 0.25mm) and therefore depends only on the DPI (dots per inch)
setting of the :class:`Figure` class and the :meth:`savefig` method.

There are two additional settings in the :class:`~ezdxf.addons.drawing.config.Configuration`
class which influences the line width:

- :attr:`~ezdxf.addons.drawing.config.Configuration.min_lineweight` sets the minimum line
  width in 1/300 inch - a value of 300 is a line width of 1 inch
- :attr:`~ezdxf.addons.drawing.config.Configuration.lineweight_scaling`, multiply the
  line width by a this factor

.. seealso::

    Discussion: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/discussions/797

.. _FAQ: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/discussions/550
.. _wcs_to_image_coordinates.py: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/blob/master/examples/addons/drawing/wcs_to_image_coodinates.py
.. _export_specific_area.py: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/blob/master/examples/addons/drawing/export_specific_area.py
.. _export_image_pixel_size.py: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/blob/master/examples/addons/drawing/export_image_pixel_size.py
.. _margins: https://matplotlib.org/stable/api/_as_gen/matplotlib.axes.Axes.margins.html
.. _render_to_scale.py: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/blob/master/examples/addons/drawing/render_to_scale.py
