docs/source/blocks/block.rst, before:

Block
=====

.. class:: Block

Blocks are embedded into the :class:`BlockLayout` object. The BLOCK entity is accessible by :attr:`BlockLayout.block`.

DXF Attributes for Block
------------------------

:ref:`Common DXF attributes for DXF R12`

:ref:`Common DXF attributes for DXF R13 or later`

.. attribute:: Block.dxf.name

Block name

.. attribute:: Block.dxf.name2

The same block name a second time (meaning?)

.. attribute:: Block.dxf.base_point

Defines the base point of the block, default=(0, 0, 0)

.. attribute:: Block.dxf.flags

Block flags (bit-coded)

==== ===========
1    Anonymous block generated by hatching, associative dimensioning, other internal operations, or an application
2    Block has non-constant attribute definitions (this bit is not set if the block has any attribute
     definitions that are constant, or has no attribute definitions at all)
4    Block is an external reference (xref)
8    Block is an xref overlay
16   Block is externally dependent
32   This is a resolved external reference, or dependent of an external reference (ignored on input)
64   This definition is a referenced external reference (ignored on input)
==== ===========

.. attribute:: Block.dxf.xref_path

Xref path name

Commit message:

added BlockLayout.is_layout_block, True if block is a model space or paper space block definition

docs/source/blocks/block.rst, after:

Block
=====

.. class:: Block

Blocks are embedded into the :class:`BlockLayout` object. The BLOCK entity is accessible by :attr:`BlockLayout.block`.

DXF Attributes for Block
------------------------

:ref:`Common DXF attributes for DXF R12`

:ref:`Common DXF attributes for DXF R13 or later`

.. attribute:: Block.dxf.name

    Block name

.. attribute:: Block.dxf.name2

    The same block name a second time (meaning?)

.. attribute:: Block.dxf.base_point

    Defines the base point of the block, default=(0, 0, 0)

.. attribute:: Block.dxf.flags

    Block flags (bit-coded)

    ==== ===========
    1    Anonymous block generated by hatching, associative dimensioning, other internal operations, or an application
    2    Block has non-constant attribute definitions (this bit is not set if the block has any attribute
         definitions that are constant, or has no attribute definitions at all)
    4    Block is an external reference (xref)
    8    Block is an xref overlay
    16   Block is externally dependent
    32   This is a resolved external reference, or dependent of an external reference (ignored on input)
    64   This definition is a referenced external reference (ignored on input)
    ==== ===========

.. attribute:: Block.dxf.xref_path

    Xref path name

.. attribute:: Block.is_layout_block

    True if block is a model space or paper space block definition.
