docs/source/dxfinternals/dxftags.rst, before:

.. _dxf_tags_internals:

DXF Tags
========

A Drawing Interchange File is simply an ASCII text file with a file
type of .dxf and special formatted text. The basic file structure
are DXF tags, a DXF tag consist of a DXF group code as an integer
value on its own line and a the DXF value on the following line.
In the ezdxf documentation DXF tags will be written as (group code, value).

Group codes are indicating the value type:

============ ==================
Group Code   Value Type
============ ==================
0-9          String (with the introduction of extended symbol names in DXF R2000,
             the 255-character limit has been increased to 2049 single-byte
             characters not including the newline at the end of the line)
10-39        Double precision 3D point value
40-59        Double-precision floating-point value
60-79        16-bit integer value
90-99        32-bit integer value
100          String (255-character maximum, less for Unicode strings)
102          String (255-character maximum, less for Unicode strings)
105          String representing hexadecimal (hex) handle value
110-119      Double precision floating-point value
120-129      Double precision floating-point value
130-139      Double precision floating-point value
140-149      Double precision scalar floating-point value
160-169      64-bit integer value
170-179      16-bit integer value
210-239      Double-precision floating-point value
270-279      16-bit integer value
280-289      16-bit integer value
290-299      Boolean flag value
300-309      Arbitrary text string (max. length 255 or 2049?)
310-319      String representing hex value of binary chunk
320-329      String representing hex handle value
330-369      String representing hex object IDs
370-379      16-bit integer value
380-389      16-bit integer value
390-399      String representing hex handle value
400-409      16-bit integer value
410-419      String (max. length 255 or 2049?)
420-429      32-bit integer value
430-439      String (max. length 255 or 2049?)
440-449      32-bit integer value
450-459      Long
460-469      Double-precision floating-point value
470-479      String (max. length 255 or 2049?)
480-481      String representing hex handle value
999          Comment (string) (max. length 255 or 2049?)
1000-1009    String, same max. length of 2049 as for group codes 0-9
1010-1059    Double-precision floating-point value
1060-1070    16-bit integer value
1071         32-bit integer value
============ ==================

Explanation for some important group codes:

================= =======
Group Code        Meaning
================= =======
0                 DXF structure tag, entity start/end or table entries
1                 The primary text value for an entity
2                 A name: Attribute tag, Block name, and so on. Also used to
                  identify a DXF section or table name.
3-4               Other textual or name values
5                 Entity handle as hex string (fixed)
6                 Line type name (fixed)
7                 Text style name (fixed)
8                 Layer name (fixed)
9                 Variable name identifier (used only in HEADER section of the
                  DXF file)
10                Primary X coordinate (start point of a Line or Text entity,
                  center of a Circle, etc.)
11-18             Other X coordinates
20                Primary Y coordinate. 2n values always correspond to 1n values
                  and immediately follow them in the file (expected by ezdxf!)
21-28             Other Y coordinates
30                Primary Z coordinate. 3n values always correspond to 1n and
                  2n values and immediately follow them in the file (expected by ezdxf!)
31-38             Other Z coordinates
39                This entity's thickness if nonzero (fixed)
40-48             Float values (text height, scale factors, etc.)
49                Repeated value - multiple 49 groups may appear in one entity
                  for variable length tables (such as the dash lengths in the
                  LTYPE table). A 7x group always appears before the first 49
                  group to specify the table length
50-58             Angles in degree
62                Color number (fixed)
66                "Entities follow" flag (fixed), only in INSERT and POLYLINE entities
67                Identifies whether entity is in modelspace (0) or paperspace (1)
68                Identifies whether viewport is on but fully off screen, is not
                  active, or is off
69                Viewport identification number
70-78             Integer values such as repeat counts, flag bits, or modes
210, 220, 230     X, Y, and Z components of extrusion direction (fixed)
310               Proxy entity graphics as binary encoded data
330               Owner handle as hex string
347               MATERIAL handle as hex string
348               VISUALSTYLE  handle as hex string
370               Lineweight in mm times 100 (e.g. 0.13mm = 13).
390               PLOTSTYLE handle as hex string
420               True color value as 0x00RRGGBB 24-bit value
430               Color name as string
440               Transparency value 0x020000TT 0 = fully transparent / 255 = opaque
999               Comments
================= =======

For explanation of all group codes see: `DXF Group Codes in Numerical Order Reference`_
provided by Autodesk

.. _xdata_internals:

Extended Data
-------------

`DXF R2018 Reference <https://help.autodesk.com/view/OARX/2018/ENU/?guid=GUID-A2A628B0-3699-4740-A215-C560E7242F63>`_

Extended data (XDATA) is created by AutoLISP or ObjectARX applications but any
other application like *ezdxf* can also define XDATA. If an entity contains
extended data, it **follows** the entity's normal definition.

But extended group codes (>=1000) can appear **before** the XDATA section, an
example is the BLOCKBASEPOINTPARAMETER entity in AutoCAD Civil 3D or AutoCAD
Map 3D.

================= ==============================================================
Group Code        Description
================= ==============================================================
1000              Strings in extended data can be up to 255 bytes long (with the
                  256th byte reserved for the null character)
1001              (fixed) Registered application name (ASCII string up to 31 bytes
                  long) for XDATA
1002              (fixed) An extended data control string can be either ``'{'``
                  or ``'}'``. These braces enable applications to organize their
                  data by subdividing the data into lists. Lists can be nested.
1003              Name of the layer associated with the extended data
1004              Binary data is organized into variable-length chunks.
                  The maximum length of each chunk is 127 bytes. In ASCII DXF
                  files, binary data is represented as a string of hexadecimal
                  digits, two per binary byte
1005              Database Handle of entities in the drawing database, see also:
                  :ref:`About 1005 Group Codes`
1010, 1020, 1030  Three real values, in the order X, Y, Z. They can be used as a
                  point or vector record that will not be modified at any
                  transformation of the entity.
1011, 1021, 1031  a WCS point that is moved, scaled, rotated and mirrored
                  along with the entity
1012, 1012, 1022  a WCS displacement that is scaled, rotated and mirrored
                  along with the entity, but is not moved
1013, 1023, 1033  a WCS direction that is rotated and mirrored along with the
                  entity, but is not moved or scaled
1040              A real value
1041              Distance, a real value that is scaled along with the parent entity
1042              Scale Factor, also a real value that is scaled along with the parent.
                  The difference between a distance and a scale factor is application-defined
1070              A 16-bit integer (signed or unsigned)
1071              A 32-bit signed (long) integer
================= ==============================================================


The (1001, ...) tag indicates the beginning of extended data. In
contrast to normal entity data, with extended data the same group code can
appear multiple times, and **order is important**.

Extended data is grouped by registered application name. Each registered
application group begins with a (1001, APPID) tag, with the application
name as APPID string value. Registered application names correspond to APPID
symbol table entries.

An application can use as many APPID names as needed. APPID names are permanent,
although they can be purged if they aren't currently used in the drawing.
Each APPID name can have **no more than one data group** attached to each entity.
Within an application group, the sequence of extended data groups and their
meaning is defined by the application.

.. _String Value Encoding:

String value encoding
---------------------

String values stored in a DXF file is plain ASCII or UTF-8, AutoCAD also
supports CIF (Common Interchange Format) and MIF (Maker Interchange Format)
encoding. The UTF-8 format is only supported in DXF R2007 and later.

Ezdxf on import converts all strings into Python unicode strings without
encoding or decoding CIF/MIF.

String values containing Unicode characters are represented with control
character sequences ``\U+nnnn``.
(e.g. ``r'TEST\U+7F3A\U+4E4F\U+89E3\U+91CA\U+6B63THIS\U+56FE'``)

To support the DXF unicode encoding ezdxf registers an encoding codec
`dxf_backslash_replace`, defined in :func:`ezdxf.lldxf.encoding`.

String values can be stored with these dxf group codes:

- 0 - 9
- 100 - 101
- 300 - 309
- 410 - 419
- 430 - 439
- 470 - 479
- 999 - 1003

Multi tag text (MTEXT)
----------------------

If the text string is less than 250 characters, all characters appear in tag
(1, ...). If the text string is longer than 250 characters, the string
is divided into 250-character chunks, which appear in one or more
(3, ...) tags. If (3, ...) tags are used, the last group is a
(1, ...) tag and has fewer than 250 characters:

.. code-block:: none

    3
    ... TwoHundredAndFifty Characters ....
    3
    ... TwoHundredAndFifty Characters ....
    1
    less than TwoHundredAndFifty Characters

As far I know this is only supported by the MTEXT entity.

.. seealso::

    :ref:`DXF File Encoding`

.. _Tag Structure DXF R13 and later:

DXF R13 and later tag structure
-------------------------------

With the introduction of DXF R13 Autodesk added additional group codes and DXF
tag structures to the DXF Standard.

Subclass Markers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Subclass markers (100, Subclass Name) divides DXF objects into several
sections. Group codes can be reused in different sections. A subclass ends with
the following subclass marker or at the beginning of xdata or the end of the
object. See `Subclass Marker Example`_ in the DXF Reference.

Quote about group codes from the DXF reference
----------------------------------------------

    Some group codes that define an entity always appear; others are optional
    and appear only if their values differ from the defaults.

    **Do not** write programs that **rely on the order given here**. The end of
    an entity is indicated by the next 0 group, which begins the next entity or
    indicates the end of the section.

    **Note:** Accommodating DXF files from future releases of AutoCAD will be
    easier if you write your DXF processing program in a table-driven way,
    ignore undefined group codes, and make no assumptions about the order of
    group codes in an entity. With each new AutoCAD release, new group codes
    will be added to entities to accommodate additional features.

Usage of group codes in subclasses twice
----------------------------------------

Some later entities entities contains the same group code twice for different
purposes, so order in the sense of which one comes first is important.
(e.g. ATTDEF group code 280)

Tag order is sometimes important especially for AutoCAD
-------------------------------------------------------

In LWPOLYLINE the order of tags is important, if the `count` tag is not the
first tag in the AcDbPolyline subclass, AutoCAD will not close the polyline
when the `close` flag is set, by the way other applications like BricsCAD
ignores the tag order and renders the polyline always correct.

.. _extension_dict_internals:

Extension Dictionary
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The extension dictionary is an optional sequence that stores the handle of a
DICTIONARY object that belongs to the current object, which in turn may contain
entries. This facility allows attachment of arbitrary database objects to any
database object. Any object or entity may have this section.

The extension dictionary tag sequence:

.. code-block:: none

  102
  {ACAD_XDICTIONARY
  360
  Hard-owner ID/handle to owner dictionary
  102
  }

.. _reactors_internals:

Persistent Reactors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Persistent reactors are an optional sequence that stores object handles of
objects registering themselves as reactors on the current object. Any object or
entity may have this section.

The persistent reactors tag sequence:

.. code-block:: none

  102
  {ACAD_REACTORS
  330
  first Soft-pointer ID/handle to owner dictionary
  330
  second Soft-pointer ID/handle to owner dictionary
  ...
  102
  }

.. _app_data_internals:

Application-Defined Codes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Starting at DXF R13, DXF objects can contain application-defined codes outside
of XDATA. This application-defined codes can contain any tag except
(0, ...) and (102, '{...'). "{YOURAPPID" means the APPID string
with an preceding "{". The application defined data tag sequence:

.. code-block:: none

    102
    {YOURAPPID
    ...
    102
    }

:code:`(102, 'YOURAPPID}')` is also a valid closing tag:

.. code-block:: none

    102
    {YOURAPPID
    ...
    102
    YOURAPPID}

All groups defined with a beginning (102, ...) appear in the DXF
reference before the first subclass marker, I don't know if these groups can
appear after the first or any subclass marker. Ezdxf accepts them at any position,
and by default ezdxf adds new app data in front of the first subclass marker to
the first tag section of an DXF object.

**Exception XRECORD:** Tags with group code 102 and a value string without a
preceding "{" or the scheme "YOURAPPID}", should be treated as usual group codes.

.. _embedded_objects_internals:

Embedded Objects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The concept of embedded objects was introduced with AutoCAD 2018 (DXF version
AC1032) and this is the only information I found about it at the Autodesk
knowledge base: `Embedded and Encapsulated Objects`_

Quote from `Embedded and Encapsulated Objects`_:

    For DXF filing, the embedded object must be filed out and in after all the
    data of the encapsulating object has been filed out and in.

    A separator is needed between the encapsulating object's data and the
    subsequent embedded object's data. The separator must be similar in function
    to the group 0 or 100 in that it must cause the filer to stop reading data.
    The normal DXF group code 0 cannot be used because DXF proxies use it to
    determine when to stop reading data. The group code 100 could have been
    used, but it might have caused confusion when manually reading a DXF file,
    and there was a need to distinguish when an embedded object is about to be
    written out in order to do some internal bookkeeping. Therefore, the DXF
    group code 101 was introduced.

**Hard facts:**

- Only used in ATTRIB, ATTDEF (embedded MTEXT) and MTEXT (columns) in DXF R2018.
- Embedded object start with (101, "Embedded Object") tag
- Embedded object is appended to the encapsulated object
- Embedded object tags can contain any group code except the DXF structure tag (0, ...)

**Unconfirmed assumptions:**

- The embedded object is written before the `Extended Data`_. No examples for
  entities including embedded objects and XDATA at the same time.
- XDATA sections replaced by embedded objects, at least for the MTEXT entity
- The encapsulating object can contain more than one embedded object.
- Embedded objects separated by (101, "Embedded Object") tags
- every entity can contain embedded objects

Real world example from an AutoCAD 2018 file:

.. code-block:: none

  100       <<< start of encapsulating object
  AcDbMText
  10
  2762.148
  20
  2327.073
  30
  0.0
  40
  2.5
  41
  18.852
  46
  0.0
  71
  1
  72
  5
  1
  {\fArial|b0|i0|c162|p34;CHANGE;\P\P\PTEXT}
  73
  1
  44
  1.0
  101       <<< start of embedded object
  Embedded Object
  70
  1
  10
  1.0
  20
  0.0
  30
  0.0
  11
  2762.148
  21
  2327.073
  31
  0.0
  40
  18.852
  41
  0.0
  42
  15.428
  43
  15.043
  71
  2
  72
  1
  44
  18.852
  45
  12.5
  73
  0
  74
  0
  46
  0.0

.. include:: reflinks.inc


.. _DXF Group Codes in Numerical Order Reference: http://help.autodesk.com/view/OARX/2018/ENU/?guid=GUID-3F0380A5-1C15-464D-BC66-2C5F094BCFB9

.. _Subclass Marker Example: http://help.autodesk.com/view/OARX/2018/ENU/?guid=GUID-CC5ACB1B-BBA3-463B-84A5-6CCD320C66E7

.. _Embedded and Encapsulated Objects: https://knowledge.autodesk.com/search-result/caas/CloudHelp/cloudhelp/2017/ENU/OARXMAC-DevGuide/files/GUID-C953866F-A335-4FFD-AE8C-256A76065552-htm.html

Commit message:

set max string length according to the DXF reference
https://help.autodesk.com/view/OARX/2018/ENU/?guid=GUID-2553CF98-44F6-4828-82DD-FE3BC7448113
maximum strings length without line endings:
DXF < R2000 = 255
DXF >= R2000 = 2049

docs/source/dxfinternals/dxftags.rst, after:

.. _dxf_tags_internals:

DXF Tags
========

A Drawing Interchange File is simply an ASCII text file with a file
type of .dxf and special formatted text. The basic file structure
are DXF tags, a DXF tag consist of a DXF group code as an integer
value on its own line and a the DXF value on the following line.
In the ezdxf documentation DXF tags will be written as (group code, value).

With the introduction of extended symbol names in DXF R2000, the 255-character
limit for strings has been increased to 2049 single-byte characters not
including the newline at the end of the line.
Nonetheless its safer to use only strings with 255 and less characters, because
its not clear if this fact is true for ALL string group codes or only for symbols
like layer- or text style names and not all 3rd party libraries may handle
this fact correct. The MTEXT content and binary data is still divided into
chunks with less than 255 characters.

Group codes are indicating the value type:

============ ==================
Group Code   Value Type
============ ==================
0-9          String
10-39        Double precision 3D point value
40-59        Double-precision floating-point value
60-79        16-bit integer value
90-99        32-bit integer value
100          String
102          String
105          String representing hexadecimal (hex) handle value
110-119      Double precision floating-point value
120-129      Double precision floating-point value
130-139      Double precision floating-point value
140-149      Double precision scalar floating-point value
160-169      64-bit integer value
170-179      16-bit integer value
210-239      Double-precision floating-point value
270-279      16-bit integer value
280-289      16-bit integer value
290-299      Boolean flag value
300-309      Arbitrary text string
310-319      String representing hex value of binary chunk
320-329      String representing hex handle value
330-369      String representing hex object IDs
370-379      16-bit integer value
380-389      16-bit integer value
390-399      String representing hex handle value
400-409      16-bit integer value
410-419      String
420-429      32-bit integer value
430-439      String
440-449      32-bit integer value
450-459      Long
460-469      Double-precision floating-point value
470-479      String
480-481      String representing hex handle value
999          Comment (string)
1000-1009    String
1010-1059    Double-precision floating-point value
1060-1070    16-bit integer value
1071         32-bit integer value
============ ==================

Explanation for some important group codes:

================= =======
Group Code        Meaning
================= =======
0                 DXF structure tag, entity start/end or table entries
1                 The primary text value for an entity
2                 A name: Attribute tag, Block name, and so on. Also used to
                  identify a DXF section or table name.
3-4               Other textual or name values
5                 Entity handle as hex string (fixed)
6                 Line type name (fixed)
7                 Text style name (fixed)
8                 Layer name (fixed)
9                 Variable name identifier (used only in HEADER section of the
                  DXF file)
10                Primary X coordinate (start point of a Line or Text entity,
                  center of a Circle, etc.)
11-18             Other X coordinates
20                Primary Y coordinate. 2n values always correspond to 1n values
                  and immediately follow them in the file (expected by ezdxf!)
21-28             Other Y coordinates
30                Primary Z coordinate. 3n values always correspond to 1n and
                  2n values and immediately follow them in the file (expected by ezdxf!)
31-38             Other Z coordinates
39                This entity's thickness if nonzero (fixed)
40-48             Float values (text height, scale factors, etc.)
49                Repeated value - multiple 49 groups may appear in one entity
                  for variable length tables (such as the dash lengths in the
                  LTYPE table). A 7x group always appears before the first 49
                  group to specify the table length
50-58             Angles in degree
62                Color number (fixed)
66                "Entities follow" flag (fixed), only in INSERT and POLYLINE entities
67                Identifies whether entity is in modelspace (0) or paperspace (1)
68                Identifies whether viewport is on but fully off screen, is not
                  active, or is off
69                Viewport identification number
70-78             Integer values such as repeat counts, flag bits, or modes
210, 220, 230     X, Y, and Z components of extrusion direction (fixed)
310               Proxy entity graphics as binary encoded data
330               Owner handle as hex string
347               MATERIAL handle as hex string
348               VISUALSTYLE  handle as hex string
370               Lineweight in mm times 100 (e.g. 0.13mm = 13).
390               PLOTSTYLE handle as hex string
420               True color value as 0x00RRGGBB 24-bit value
430               Color name as string
440               Transparency value 0x020000TT 0 = fully transparent / 255 = opaque
999               Comments
================= =======

For explanation of all group codes see: `DXF Group Codes in Numerical Order Reference`_
provided by Autodesk

.. _xdata_internals:

Extended Data
-------------

`DXF R2018 Reference <https://help.autodesk.com/view/OARX/2018/ENU/?guid=GUID-A2A628B0-3699-4740-A215-C560E7242F63>`_

Extended data (XDATA) is created by AutoLISP or ObjectARX applications but any
other application like *ezdxf* can also define XDATA. If an entity contains
extended data, it **follows** the entity's normal definition.

But extended group codes (>=1000) can appear **before** the XDATA section, an
example is the BLOCKBASEPOINTPARAMETER entity in AutoCAD Civil 3D or AutoCAD
Map 3D.

================= ==============================================================
Group Code        Description
================= ==============================================================
1000              Strings in extended data can be up to 255 bytes long (with the
                  256th byte reserved for the null character)
1001              (fixed) Registered application name (ASCII string up to 31 bytes
                  long) for XDATA
1002              (fixed) An extended data control string can be either ``'{'``
                  or ``'}'``. These braces enable applications to organize their
                  data by subdividing the data into lists. Lists can be nested.
1003              Name of the layer associated with the extended data
1004              Binary data is organized into variable-length chunks.
                  The maximum length of each chunk is 127 bytes. In ASCII DXF
                  files, binary data is represented as a string of hexadecimal
                  digits, two per binary byte
1005              Database Handle of entities in the drawing database, see also:
                  :ref:`About 1005 Group Codes`
1010, 1020, 1030  Three real values, in the order X, Y, Z. They can be used as a
                  point or vector record that will not be modified at any
                  transformation of the entity.
1011, 1021, 1031  a WCS point that is moved, scaled, rotated and mirrored
                  along with the entity
1012, 1012, 1022  a WCS displacement that is scaled, rotated and mirrored
                  along with the entity, but is not moved
1013, 1023, 1033  a WCS direction that is rotated and mirrored along with the
                  entity, but is not moved or scaled
1040              A real value
1041              Distance, a real value that is scaled along with the parent entity
1042              Scale Factor, also a real value that is scaled along with the parent.
                  The difference between a distance and a scale factor is application-defined
1070              A 16-bit integer (signed or unsigned)
1071              A 32-bit signed (long) integer
================= ==============================================================


The (1001, ...) tag indicates the beginning of extended data. In
contrast to normal entity data, with extended data the same group code can
appear multiple times, and **order is important**.

Extended data is grouped by registered application name. Each registered
application group begins with a (1001, APPID) tag, with the application
name as APPID string value. Registered application names correspond to APPID
symbol table entries.

An application can use as many APPID names as needed. APPID names are permanent,
although they can be purged if they aren't currently used in the drawing.
Each APPID name can have **no more than one data group** attached to each entity.
Within an application group, the sequence of extended data groups and their
meaning is defined by the application.

.. _String Value Encoding:

String value encoding
---------------------

String values stored in a DXF file is plain ASCII or UTF-8, AutoCAD also
supports CIF (Common Interchange Format) and MIF (Maker Interchange Format)
encoding. The UTF-8 format is only supported in DXF R2007 and later.

Ezdxf on import converts all strings into Python unicode strings without
encoding or decoding CIF/MIF.

String values containing Unicode characters are represented with control
character sequences ``\U+nnnn``.
(e.g. ``r'TEST\U+7F3A\U+4E4F\U+89E3\U+91CA\U+6B63THIS\U+56FE'``)

To support the DXF unicode encoding ezdxf registers an encoding codec
`dxf_backslash_replace`, defined in :func:`ezdxf.lldxf.encoding`.

String values can be stored with these dxf group codes:

- 0 - 9
- 100 - 101
- 300 - 309
- 410 - 419
- 430 - 439
- 470 - 479
- 999 - 1003

Multi tag text (MTEXT)
----------------------

If the text string is less than 250 characters, all characters appear in tag
(1, ...). If the text string is longer than 250 characters, the string
is divided into 250-character chunks, which appear in one or more
(3, ...) tags. If (3, ...) tags are used, the last group is a
(1, ...) tag and has fewer than 250 characters:

.. code-block:: none

    3
    ... TwoHundredAndFifty Characters ....
    3
    ... TwoHundredAndFifty Characters ....
    1
    less than TwoHundredAndFifty Characters

As far I know this is only supported by the MTEXT entity.

.. seealso::

    :ref:`DXF File Encoding`

.. _Tag Structure DXF R13 and later:

DXF R13 and later tag structure
-------------------------------

With the introduction of DXF R13 Autodesk added additional group codes and DXF
tag structures to the DXF Standard.

Subclass Markers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Subclass markers (100, Subclass Name) divides DXF objects into several
sections. Group codes can be reused in different sections. A subclass ends with
the following subclass marker or at the beginning of xdata or the end of the
object. See `Subclass Marker Example`_ in the DXF Reference.

Quote about group codes from the DXF reference
----------------------------------------------

    Some group codes that define an entity always appear; others are optional
    and appear only if their values differ from the defaults.

    **Do not** write programs that **rely on the order given here**. The end of
    an entity is indicated by the next 0 group, which begins the next entity or
    indicates the end of the section.

    **Note:** Accommodating DXF files from future releases of AutoCAD will be
    easier if you write your DXF processing program in a table-driven way,
    ignore undefined group codes, and make no assumptions about the order of
    group codes in an entity. With each new AutoCAD release, new group codes
    will be added to entities to accommodate additional features.

Usage of group codes in subclasses twice
----------------------------------------

Some later entities entities contains the same group code twice for different
purposes, so order in the sense of which one comes first is important.
(e.g. ATTDEF group code 280)

Tag order is sometimes important especially for AutoCAD
-------------------------------------------------------

In LWPOLYLINE the order of tags is important, if the `count` tag is not the
first tag in the AcDbPolyline subclass, AutoCAD will not close the polyline
when the `close` flag is set, by the way other applications like BricsCAD
ignores the tag order and renders the polyline always correct.

.. _extension_dict_internals:

Extension Dictionary
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The extension dictionary is an optional sequence that stores the handle of a
DICTIONARY object that belongs to the current object, which in turn may contain
entries. This facility allows attachment of arbitrary database objects to any
database object. Any object or entity may have this section.

The extension dictionary tag sequence:

.. code-block:: none

  102
  {ACAD_XDICTIONARY
  360
  Hard-owner ID/handle to owner dictionary
  102
  }

.. _reactors_internals:

Persistent Reactors
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Persistent reactors are an optional sequence that stores object handles of
objects registering themselves as reactors on the current object. Any object or
entity may have this section.

The persistent reactors tag sequence:

.. code-block:: none

  102
  {ACAD_REACTORS
  330
  first Soft-pointer ID/handle to owner dictionary
  330
  second Soft-pointer ID/handle to owner dictionary
  ...
  102
  }

.. _app_data_internals:

Application-Defined Codes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Starting at DXF R13, DXF objects can contain application-defined codes outside
of XDATA. This application-defined codes can contain any tag except
(0, ...) and (102, '{...'). "{YOURAPPID" means the APPID string
with an preceding "{". The application defined data tag sequence:

.. code-block:: none

    102
    {YOURAPPID
    ...
    102
    }

:code:`(102, 'YOURAPPID}')` is also a valid closing tag:

.. code-block:: none

    102
    {YOURAPPID
    ...
    102
    YOURAPPID}

All groups defined with a beginning (102, ...) appear in the DXF
reference before the first subclass marker, I don't know if these groups can
appear after the first or any subclass marker. Ezdxf accepts them at any position,
and by default ezdxf adds new app data in front of the first subclass marker to
the first tag section of an DXF object.

**Exception XRECORD:** Tags with group code 102 and a value string without a
preceding "{" or the scheme "YOURAPPID}", should be treated as usual group codes.

.. _embedded_objects_internals:

Embedded Objects
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The concept of embedded objects was introduced with AutoCAD 2018 (DXF version
AC1032) and this is the only information I found about it at the Autodesk
knowledge base: `Embedded and Encapsulated Objects`_

Quote from `Embedded and Encapsulated Objects`_:

    For DXF filing, the embedded object must be filed out and in after all the
    data of the encapsulating object has been filed out and in.

    A separator is needed between the encapsulating object's data and the
    subsequent embedded object's data. The separator must be similar in function
    to the group 0 or 100 in that it must cause the filer to stop reading data.
    The normal DXF group code 0 cannot be used because DXF proxies use it to
    determine when to stop reading data. The group code 100 could have been
    used, but it might have caused confusion when manually reading a DXF file,
    and there was a need to distinguish when an embedded object is about to be
    written out in order to do some internal bookkeeping. Therefore, the DXF
    group code 101 was introduced.

**Hard facts:**

- Only used in ATTRIB, ATTDEF (embedded MTEXT) and MTEXT (columns) in DXF R2018.
- Embedded object start with (101, "Embedded Object") tag
- Embedded object is appended to the encapsulated object
- Embedded object tags can contain any group code except the DXF structure tag (0, ...)

**Unconfirmed assumptions:**

- The embedded object is written before the `Extended Data`_. No examples for
  entities including embedded objects and XDATA at the same time.
- XDATA sections replaced by embedded objects, at least for the MTEXT entity
- The encapsulating object can contain more than one embedded object.
- Embedded objects separated by (101, "Embedded Object") tags
- every entity can contain embedded objects

Real world example from an AutoCAD 2018 file:

.. code-block:: none

  100       <<< start of encapsulating object
  AcDbMText
  10
  2762.148
  20
  2327.073
  30
  0.0
  40
  2.5
  41
  18.852
  46
  0.0
  71
  1
  72
  5
  1
  {\fArial|b0|i0|c162|p34;CHANGE;\P\P\PTEXT}
  73
  1
  44
  1.0
  101       <<< start of embedded object
  Embedded Object
  70
  1
  10
  1.0
  20
  0.0
  30
  0.0
  11
  2762.148
  21
  2327.073
  31
  0.0
  40
  18.852
  41
  0.0
  42
  15.428
  43
  15.043
  71
  2
  72
  1
  44
  18.852
  45
  12.5
  73
  0
  74
  0
  46
  0.0

.. include:: reflinks.inc


.. _DXF Group Codes in Numerical Order Reference: http://help.autodesk.com/view/OARX/2018/ENU/?guid=GUID-3F0380A5-1C15-464D-BC66-2C5F094BCFB9

.. _Subclass Marker Example: http://help.autodesk.com/view/OARX/2018/ENU/?guid=GUID-CC5ACB1B-BBA3-463B-84A5-6CCD320C66E7

.. _Embedded and Encapsulated Objects: https://knowledge.autodesk.com/search-result/caas/CloudHelp/cloudhelp/2017/ENU/OARXMAC-DevGuide/files/GUID-C953866F-A335-4FFD-AE8C-256A76065552-htm.html
