docs/source/math/arc.rst, before:

.. module:: ezdxf.ezmath

This class located in module :mod:`ezdxf.ezmath`::

    from ezdxf.ezmath import ConstructionArc


ConstructionArc
---------------

.. class:: ConstructionArc

    This is a helper class to create parameters for the DXF :class:`ConstructionArc` class.


.. attribute:: ConstructionArc.center

    Center point as :class:`~ezdxf.ezmath.Vector`

.. attribute:: ConstructionArc.radius

    Arc radius

.. attribute:: ConstructionArc.start_angle

    Start angle of arc in degrees.

.. attribute:: ConstructionArc.start_angle_rad

    Start angle of arc in radians.

.. attribute:: ConstructionArc.end_angle

    End angle of arc in degrees.

.. attribute:: ConstructionArc.end_angle_rad

    End angle of arc in radians.


Class Methods
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. method:: ConstructionArc.from_2p_angle(start_point, end_point, angle, ccw=True)

    Create arc from two points and enclosing angle. Arc goes by default in counter clockwise orientation from
    start_point to end_point, can be changed by *ccw* =False.
    Z-axis of start_point and end_point has to be 0 if given.


    :param start_point: start point as (x, y [,z]) tuple
    :param end_point: end point as (x, y [,z]) tuple
    :param float angle: enclosing angle in degrees
    :param bool ccw: counter clockwise orientation

    :Return: new :class:`~ezdxf.ezmath.ConstructionArc`

.. method:: ConstructionArc.from_2p_radius(start_point, end_point, radius, ccw=True, center_is_left=True)

    Create arc from two points and arc radius. Arc goes by default in counter clockwise orientation from
    start_point to end_point, can be changed by *ccw* =False.
    Z-axis of start_point and end_point has to be 0 if given.

    The parameter *center_is_left* defines if the center of the arc is left or right of the line *start point* ->
    *end point*. Parameter *ccw* =False swaps start- and end point, which inverts the meaning of *center_is_left*.

    :param start_point: start point as (x, y [,z]) tuple
    :param end_point: end point as (x, y [,z]) tuple
    :param float radius: arc radius
    :param bool ccw: counter clockwise orientation
    :param bool center_is_left: center point of arc is left of line *start point* -> *end point* if True, else on the right side of this line

    :Return: new :class:`~ezdxf.ezmath.ConstructionArc`

.. method:: ConstructionArc.from_3p(start_point, end_point, def_point, ccw=True)

    Create arc from three points. Arc goes by default in counter clockwise orientation from
    start_point to end_point, can be changed by *ccw* =False.
    Z-axis of start_point, end_point and def_point has to be 0 if given.

    :param start_point: start point as (x, y [,z]) tuple
    :param end_point: end point as (x, y [,z]) tuple
    :param def_point: additional definition point as (x, y [,z]) tuple
    :param bool ccw: counter clockwise orientation

    :Return: new :class:`~ezdxf.ezmath.ConstructionArc`


Methods
~~~~~~~

.. method:: ConstructionArc.add_to_layout(layout, ucs=None, dxfattribs=None)

    Add arc as DXF entity to a layout.

    Supports 3D arcs by using an :class:`~ezdxf.ezmath.UCS`. An arc is always defined in the xy-plane, by using an
    arbitrary :class:`~ezdxf.ezmath.UCS`, the arc can be placed in 3D space, automatically :class:`~ezdxf.ezmath.OCS`
    transformation included.

    :param layout: destination layout (model space, paper space or block)
    :param ucs: :class:`~ezdxf.ezmath.UCS` definition for arc properties transformation to :class:`~ezdxf.ezmath.OCS`,
                *None* for 2D arcs
    :param dict dxfattribs: usual DXF attributes supported by :class:`ConstructionArc`

    :Return: DXF :class:`ConstructionArc` object

Commit message:

renamed ezmath to math (found solution for pycharm errors)

docs/source/math/arc.rst, after:

.. module:: ezdxf.math

This class located in module :mod:`ezdxf.math`::

    from ezdxf.math import ConstructionArc


ConstructionArc
---------------

.. class:: ConstructionArc

    This is a helper class to create parameters for the DXF :class:`ConstructionArc` class.


.. attribute:: ConstructionArc.center

    Center point as :class:`~ezdxf.math.Vector`

.. attribute:: ConstructionArc.radius

    Arc radius

.. attribute:: ConstructionArc.start_angle

    Start angle of arc in degrees.

.. attribute:: ConstructionArc.start_angle_rad

    Start angle of arc in radians.

.. attribute:: ConstructionArc.end_angle

    End angle of arc in degrees.

.. attribute:: ConstructionArc.end_angle_rad

    End angle of arc in radians.


Class Methods
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. method:: ConstructionArc.from_2p_angle(start_point, end_point, angle, ccw=True)

    Create arc from two points and enclosing angle. Arc goes by default in counter clockwise orientation from
    start_point to end_point, can be changed by *ccw* =False.
    Z-axis of start_point and end_point has to be 0 if given.


    :param start_point: start point as (x, y [,z]) tuple
    :param end_point: end point as (x, y [,z]) tuple
    :param float angle: enclosing angle in degrees
    :param bool ccw: counter clockwise orientation

    :Return: new :class:`~ezdxf.math.ConstructionArc`

.. method:: ConstructionArc.from_2p_radius(start_point, end_point, radius, ccw=True, center_is_left=True)

    Create arc from two points and arc radius. Arc goes by default in counter clockwise orientation from
    start_point to end_point, can be changed by *ccw* =False.
    Z-axis of start_point and end_point has to be 0 if given.

    The parameter *center_is_left* defines if the center of the arc is left or right of the line *start point* ->
    *end point*. Parameter *ccw* =False swaps start- and end point, which inverts the meaning of *center_is_left*.

    :param start_point: start point as (x, y [,z]) tuple
    :param end_point: end point as (x, y [,z]) tuple
    :param float radius: arc radius
    :param bool ccw: counter clockwise orientation
    :param bool center_is_left: center point of arc is left of line *start point* -> *end point* if True, else on the right side of this line

    :Return: new :class:`~ezdxf.math.ConstructionArc`

.. method:: ConstructionArc.from_3p(start_point, end_point, def_point, ccw=True)

    Create arc from three points. Arc goes by default in counter clockwise orientation from
    start_point to end_point, can be changed by *ccw* =False.
    Z-axis of start_point, end_point and def_point has to be 0 if given.

    :param start_point: start point as (x, y [,z]) tuple
    :param end_point: end point as (x, y [,z]) tuple
    :param def_point: additional definition point as (x, y [,z]) tuple
    :param bool ccw: counter clockwise orientation

    :Return: new :class:`~ezdxf.math.ConstructionArc`


Methods
~~~~~~~

.. method:: ConstructionArc.add_to_layout(layout, ucs=None, dxfattribs=None)

    Add arc as DXF entity to a layout.

    Supports 3D arcs by using an :class:`~ezdxf.math.UCS`. An arc is always defined in the xy-plane, by using an
    arbitrary :class:`~ezdxf.math.UCS`, the arc can be placed in 3D space, automatically :class:`~ezdxf.math.OCS`
    transformation included.

    :param layout: destination layout (model space, paper space or block)
    :param ucs: :class:`~ezdxf.math.UCS` definition for arc properties transformation to :class:`~ezdxf.math.OCS`,
                *None* for 2D arcs
    :param dict dxfattribs: usual DXF attributes supported by :class:`ConstructionArc`

    :Return: DXF :class:`ConstructionArc` object
