docs/source/develop/entitydb.rst, before:

.. module:: ezdxf.entitydb

Entity Database
===============

The :class:`EntityDB` is a simple key/value database to store :class:`~ezdxf.entities.DXFEntity` objects by it's handle,
every :class:`~ezdxf.drawing.Drawing` has its own :class:`EntityDB`, stored in the :class:`~ezdxf.drawing.Drawing`
attribute :attr:`~ezdxf.drawing.Drawing.entitydb`.

Every DXF entity/object, except tables and sections, are represented as :class:`~ezdxf.entities.dxfentity.DXFEntity` or
inherited types, this entities are stored in the :class:`EntityDB`, database-key is the :attr:`dxf.handle` as plain hex
string (group code 5 or 105).


.. class:: EntityDB

    .. automethod:: __getitem__(handle: str) -> DXFEntity

    .. automethod:: __setitem__(handle: str, entity: DXFEntity) -> None

    .. automethod:: __delitem__

    .. automethod:: __contains__(item: Union[str, DXFEntity]) -> bool

    .. automethod:: __len__

    .. automethod:: __iter__

    .. automethod:: get(handle: str) -> Optional[DXFEntity]

    .. automethod:: next_handle

    .. automethod:: keys

    .. automethod:: values() -> Iterable[DXFEntity]

    .. automethod:: items()  -> Iterable[Tuple[str, DXFEntity]]

    .. automethod:: add(entity: DXFEntity) -> None

    .. automethod:: delete_entity(entity: DXFEntity) -> None

    .. automethod:: duplicate_entity(entity: DXFEntity) -> DXFEntity

Entity Space
============

.. autoclass:: EntitySpace

    .. automethod:: __iter__() -> Iterable[DXFEntity]

    .. automethod:: __getitem__(index) -> DXFEntity

    .. automethod:: __len__

    .. automethod:: has_handle

    .. automethod:: purge

    .. automethod:: reorder

    .. automethod:: add(entity: DXFEntity) -> None

    .. automethod:: extend(entities: Iterable[DXFEntity]) -> None

    .. automethod:: remove(entity: DXFEntity) -> None

    .. automethod:: clear

Commit message:

refactor EntityDB and EntitySpace for proper handling of destroyed entities
Also removed priority attribute from DXFGraphic (and EntitySpace),
was not supported and had no meaning, because entity order in DXF
file does not depend on appearance order in the DXF file.

docs/source/develop/entitydb.rst, after:

.. module:: ezdxf.entitydb

Entity Database
===============

The :class:`EntityDB` is a simple key/value database to store
:class:`~ezdxf.entities.DXFEntity` objects by it's handle,
every :class:`~ezdxf.drawing.Drawing` has its own :class:`EntityDB`, stored in
the :class:`Drawing` attribute :attr:`~ezdxf.drawing.Drawing.entitydb`.

Every DXF entity/object, except tables and sections, are represented as
:class:`DXFEntity` or inherited types, this entities are stored in the
:class:`EntityDB`, database-key is the :attr:`dxf.handle` as plain hex
string.

All iterators like :meth:`keys`, :meth:`values`, :meth:`items` and :meth:`__iter__`
do not yield destroyed entities, but still entities from the trashcan until you
explicit call :meth:`empty_trashcan`.

.. warning::

    The :meth:`get` method and the index operator ``[]``, return destroyed
    entities and entities from the trashcan.

.. class:: EntityDB

    .. automethod:: __getitem__(handle: str) -> DXFEntity

    .. automethod:: __setitem__(handle: str, entity: DXFEntity) -> None

    .. automethod:: __delitem__

    .. automethod:: __contains__(item: Union[str, DXFEntity]) -> bool

    .. automethod:: __len__

    .. automethod:: __iter__

    .. automethod:: get(handle: str) -> Optional[DXFEntity]

    .. automethod:: next_handle

    .. automethod:: keys

    .. automethod:: values() -> Iterable[DXFEntity]

    .. automethod:: items()  -> Iterable[Tuple[str, DXFEntity]]

    .. automethod:: add(entity: DXFEntity) -> None

    .. automethod:: trash

    .. automethod:: empty_trashcan

    .. automethod:: purge

Entity Space
============

.. autoclass:: EntitySpace

    .. automethod:: __iter__() -> Iterable[DXFEntity]

    .. automethod:: __getitem__(index) -> DXFEntity

    .. automethod:: __len__

    .. automethod:: has_handle

    .. automethod:: purge

    .. automethod:: add(entity: DXFEntity) -> None

    .. automethod:: extend(entities: Iterable[DXFEntity]) -> None

    .. automethod:: remove(entity: DXFEntity) -> None

    .. automethod:: clear
