docs/source/tables/blockrecord_table_entry.rst, before:

BlockRecord
===========

.. module:: ezdxf.entities
    :noindex:

BLOCK_RECORD (`DXF Reference`_) is the core management structure for
:class:`~ezdxf.layouts.BlockLayout` and :class:`~ezdxf.layouts.Layout`.
This is an internal DXF structure managed by `ezdxf`, package users don't have
to care about it.

======================== ==========================================
Subclass of              :class:`ezdxf.entities.DXFEntity`
DXF type                 ``'BLOCK_RECORD'``
Factory function         :meth:`Drawing.block_records.new`
======================== ==========================================



.. class:: BlockRecord

    .. attribute:: dxf.owner

        Handle to owner (:class:`~ezdxf.sections.table.Table`).

    .. attribute:: dxf.name

        Name of associated BLOCK.

    .. attribute:: dxf.layout

        Handle to associated :class:`~ezdxf.entities.layout.DXFLayout`, if
        paperspace layout or modelspace else "0"

    .. attribute:: dxf.explode

        1 for BLOCK references can be exploded else 0

    .. attribute:: dxf.scale

        1 for BLOCK references can be scaled else 0

    .. attribute:: dxf.units

        BLOCK insert units

        === ===================
        0   Unitless
        1   Inches
        2   Feet
        3   Miles
        4   Millimeters
        5   Centimeters
        6   Meters
        7   Kilometers
        8   Microinches
        9   Mils
        10  Yards
        11  Angstroms
        12  Nanometers
        13  Microns
        14  Decimeters
        15  Decameters
        16  Hectometers
        17  Gigameters
        18  Astronomical units
        19  Light years
        20  Parsecs
        21  US Survey Feet
        22  US Survey Inch
        23  US Survey Yard
        24  US Survey Mile
        === ===================


    .. autoattribute:: is_active_paperspace

    .. autoattribute:: is_any_paperspace

    .. autoattribute:: is_any_layout

    .. autoattribute:: is_block_layout

    .. autoattribute:: is_modelspace


Internal Structure
------------------

Do not change this structures, this is just an information for experienced
developers!

The BLOCK_RECORD is the owner of all the entities in a layout and stores them
in an :class:`~ezdxf.entitydb.EntitySpace` object (:attr:`BlockRecord.entity_space`).
For each layout exist a BLOCK definition in the BLOCKS section, a reference to
the :class:`~ezdxf.entities.Block` entity is stored in :attr:`BlockRecord.block`.

:class:`~ezdxf.layouts.Modelspace` and :class:`~ezdxf.layouts.Paperspace`
layouts require an additional :class:`~ezdxf.entities.DXFLayout` object
in the OBJECTS section.

.. seealso::

    More information about :ref:`Block Management Structures` and
    :ref:`Layout Management Structures`.

.. _DXF Reference: http://help.autodesk.com/view/OARX/2018/ENU/?guid=GUID-A1FD1934-7EF5-4D35-A4B0-F8AE54A9A20A

Commit message:

add property BlockRecord.is_xref

docs/source/tables/blockrecord_table_entry.rst, after:

BlockRecord
===========

.. module:: ezdxf.entities
    :noindex:

BLOCK_RECORD (`DXF Reference`_) is the core management structure for
:class:`~ezdxf.layouts.BlockLayout` and :class:`~ezdxf.layouts.Layout`.
This is an internal DXF structure managed by `ezdxf`, package users don't have
to care about it.

======================== ==========================================
Subclass of              :class:`ezdxf.entities.DXFEntity`
DXF type                 ``'BLOCK_RECORD'``
Factory function         :meth:`Drawing.block_records.new`
======================== ==========================================



.. class:: BlockRecord

    .. attribute:: dxf.owner

        Handle to owner (:class:`~ezdxf.sections.table.Table`).

    .. attribute:: dxf.name

        Name of associated BLOCK.

    .. attribute:: dxf.layout

        Handle to associated :class:`~ezdxf.entities.layout.DXFLayout`, if
        paperspace layout or modelspace else "0"

    .. attribute:: dxf.explode

        1 for BLOCK references can be exploded else 0

    .. attribute:: dxf.scale

        1 for BLOCK references can be scaled else 0

    .. attribute:: dxf.units

        BLOCK insert units

        === ===================
        0   Unitless
        1   Inches
        2   Feet
        3   Miles
        4   Millimeters
        5   Centimeters
        6   Meters
        7   Kilometers
        8   Microinches
        9   Mils
        10  Yards
        11  Angstroms
        12  Nanometers
        13  Microns
        14  Decimeters
        15  Decameters
        16  Hectometers
        17  Gigameters
        18  Astronomical units
        19  Light years
        20  Parsecs
        21  US Survey Feet
        22  US Survey Inch
        23  US Survey Yard
        24  US Survey Mile
        === ===================


    .. autoproperty:: is_active_paperspace

    .. autoproperty:: is_any_paperspace

    .. autoproperty:: is_any_layout

    .. autoproperty:: is_block_layout

    .. autoproperty:: is_modelspace

    .. autoproperty:: is_xref


Internal Structure
------------------

Do not change this structures, this is just an information for experienced
developers!

The BLOCK_RECORD is the owner of all the entities in a layout and stores them
in an :class:`~ezdxf.entitydb.EntitySpace` object (:attr:`BlockRecord.entity_space`).
For each layout exist a BLOCK definition in the BLOCKS section, a reference to
the :class:`~ezdxf.entities.Block` entity is stored in :attr:`BlockRecord.block`.

:class:`~ezdxf.layouts.Modelspace` and :class:`~ezdxf.layouts.Paperspace`
layouts require an additional :class:`~ezdxf.entities.DXFLayout` object
in the OBJECTS section.

.. seealso::

    More information about :ref:`Block Management Structures` and
    :ref:`Layout Management Structures`.

.. _DXF Reference: http://help.autodesk.com/view/OARX/2018/ENU/?guid=GUID-A1FD1934-7EF5-4D35-A4B0-F8AE54A9A20A
