docs/source/dxfentities/circle.rst, before:

Circle
======

.. module:: ezdxf.entities
    :noindex:

CIRCLE (`DXF Reference`_) center at location :attr:`dxf.center` and radius of :attr:`dxf.radius`.

======================== ==========================================
Subclass of              :class:`ezdxf.entities.DXFGraphic`
DXF type                 ``'CIRCLE'``
Factory function         :meth:`ezdxf.layouts.BaseLayout.add_circle`
Inherited DXF attributes :ref:`Common graphical DXF attributes`
======================== ==========================================

.. warning::

    Do not instantiate entity classes by yourself - always use the provided factory functions!

.. class:: Circle

    .. attribute:: dxf.center

        Center point of circle (2D/3D Point in :ref:`OCS`)

    .. attribute:: dxf.radius

        Radius of circle (float)

    .. automethod:: vertices(angle:Iterable[float]) -> Iterable[Vector]

    .. automethod:: transform(m: Matrix44) -> Circle

    .. automethod:: translate(dx: float, dy: float, dz: float) -> Circle

.. _DXF Reference: http://help.autodesk.com/view/OARX/2018/ENU/?guid=GUID-8663262B-222C-414D-B133-4A8506A27C18

Commit message:

add CIRCLE, ARC and ELLIPSE converter
Convert/Replace CIRCLE and ARC to/by ELLIPSE
Convert/Replace CIRCLE, ARC and ELLIPSE to/by SPLINE

docs/source/dxfentities/circle.rst, after:

Circle
======

.. module:: ezdxf.entities
    :noindex:

CIRCLE (`DXF Reference`_) center at location :attr:`dxf.center` and radius of :attr:`dxf.radius`.

======================== ==========================================
Subclass of              :class:`ezdxf.entities.DXFGraphic`
DXF type                 ``'CIRCLE'``
Factory function         :meth:`ezdxf.layouts.BaseLayout.add_circle`
Inherited DXF attributes :ref:`Common graphical DXF attributes`
======================== ==========================================

.. warning::

    Do not instantiate entity classes by yourself - always use the provided factory functions!

.. class:: Circle

    .. attribute:: dxf.center

        Center point of circle (2D/3D Point in :ref:`OCS`)

    .. attribute:: dxf.radius

        Radius of circle (float)

    .. automethod:: vertices(angle:Iterable[float]) -> Iterable[Vector]

    .. automethod:: transform(m: Matrix44) -> Circle

    .. automethod:: translate(dx: float, dy: float, dz: float) -> Circle

    .. automethod:: to_ellipse(replace=True) -> Ellipse

    .. automethod:: to_spline(replace=True) -> Spline

.. _DXF Reference: http://help.autodesk.com/view/OARX/2018/ENU/?guid=GUID-8663262B-222C-414D-B133-4A8506A27C18
