docs/source/dxfentities/mleader.rst, before:

MultiLeader
===========

.. module:: ezdxf.entities
    :noindex:

.. versionadded:: 0.18

The MULTILEADER or MLEADER entity (`DXF Reference`_) represents one ore more
leaders, made up of one or more vertices (or spline fit points) and an arrowhead.
In contrast to the :class:`Leader` entity the text- or block content is part of
the MLEADER.

Because of the complexity of the MLEADER entity it is recommend to use the
:class:`~ezdxf.render.MLeaderBuilder` to create or modify the entity.

.. seealso::

    :ref:`tut_mleader`

======================== ==========================================
Subclass of              :class:`ezdxf.entities.DXFGraphic`
DXF type                 ``'MULTILEADER'``, maybe ``'MLEADER'``
Factory function         :meth:`ezdxf.layouts.BaseLayout.add_mleader`
Inherited DXF attributes :ref:`Common graphical DXF attributes`
Required DXF version     DXF R2000 (``'AC1015'``)
======================== ==========================================

.. _DXF Reference: https://help.autodesk.com/view/OARX/2018/ENU/?guid=GUID-72D20B8C-0F5E-4993-BEB7-0FCF94F32BE0


.. class:: MultiLeader

    .. automethod:: virtual_entities() -> Iterable[DXFGraphic]

    .. automethod:: explode(target_layout: BaseLayout = None) -> EntityQuery

TODO ...

Commit message:

add factory method BaseLayout.add_multileader()
MultiLeaderBuilder is not implemented yet!

docs/source/dxfentities/mleader.rst, after:

MultiLeader
===========

.. module:: ezdxf.entities
    :noindex:

.. versionadded:: 0.18

The MULTILEADER entity (`DXF Reference`_) represents one ore more leaders,
made up of one or more vertices (or spline fit points) and an arrowhead.
In contrast to the :class:`Leader` entity the text- or block content is part of
the MULTILEADER entity.

Because of the complexity of the MLEADER entity it is recommend to use the
:class:`~ezdxf.render.MultiLeaderBuilder` to create or modify the entity.

AutoCAD, BricsCAD and maybe other CAD applications do accept ``'MLEADER'`` as
type string but always create entities with ``'MULTILEADER'`` as type string.

.. seealso::

    :ref:`tut_mleader`

======================== ==========================================
Subclass of              :class:`ezdxf.entities.DXFGraphic`
DXF type                 ``'MULTILEADER'``
Factory function         :meth:`ezdxf.layouts.BaseLayout.add_multileader`
Inherited DXF attributes :ref:`Common graphical DXF attributes`
Required DXF version     DXF R2000 (``'AC1015'``)
======================== ==========================================

.. _DXF Reference: https://help.autodesk.com/view/OARX/2018/ENU/?guid=GUID-72D20B8C-0F5E-4993-BEB7-0FCF94F32BE0


.. class:: MultiLeader

    .. automethod:: virtual_entities() -> Iterable[DXFGraphic]

    .. automethod:: explode(target_layout: BaseLayout = None) -> EntityQuery

TODO ...
