docs/source/dxfentities/trace.rst, before:

Trace
=====

.. module:: ezdxf.entities
    :noindex:

TRACE entity (`DXF Reference`_) is solid filled triangle or quadrilateral.
Access vertices by name (:code:`entity.dxf.vtx0 = (1.7, 2.3)`) or by
index (:code:`entity[0] = (1.7, 2.3)`). If only 3 vertices are provided the
last (3rd) vertex will be repeated in the DXF file.


The TRACE entity stores the vertices in an unusual way, the last two vertices
are reversed. The coordinates [(0, 0), (1, 0), (1, 1), (0, 1)] do not create
a square as you would expect:

.. image:: gfx/solid0.png
    :align: center

Reverse the last two vertices to get the `expected` square:
[(0, 0), (1, 0), (0, 1), (1, 1)]

.. image:: gfx/solid1.png
    :align: center

.. note::

    The :meth:`Trace.vertices` and :meth:`Trace.wcs_vertices` methods return the
    vertices in the `expected` (reversed) order.

======================== ==========================================
Subclass of              :class:`ezdxf.entities.DXFGraphic`
DXF type                 ``'TRACE'``
Factory function         :meth:`ezdxf.layouts.BaseLayout.add_trace`
Inherited DXF attributes :ref:`Common graphical DXF attributes`
======================== ==========================================

.. warning::

    Do not instantiate entity classes by yourself - always use the provided factory functions!


.. class:: Trace

    .. attribute:: dxf.vtx0

        Location of 1. vertex (2D/3D Point in :ref:`OCS`)

    .. attribute:: dxf.vtx1

        Location of 2. vertex (2D/3D Point in :ref:`OCS`)

    .. attribute:: dxf.vtx2

        Location of 3. vertex (2D/3D Point in :ref:`OCS`)

    .. attribute:: dxf.vtx3

        Location of 4. vertex (2D/3D Point in :ref:`OCS`)

    .. automethod:: transform

    .. automethod:: vertices

    .. automethod:: wcs_vertices

.. _DXF Reference: http://help.autodesk.com/view/OARX/2018/ENU/?guid=GUID-EA6FBCA8-1AD6-4FB2-B149-770313E93511

Commit message:

refactor SOLID and TRACE docs

docs/source/dxfentities/trace.rst, after:

Trace
=====

.. module:: ezdxf.entities
    :noindex:

TRACE entity (`DXF Reference`_) is solid filled triangle or quadrilateral.
Access vertices by name (:code:`entity.dxf.vtx0 = (1.7, 2.3)`) or by
index (:code:`entity[0] = (1.7, 2.3)`). If only 3 vertices are provided the
last (3rd) vertex will be repeated in the DXF file.


The TRACE entity stores the vertices in an unusual way, the last two vertices
are reversed:

.. code-block:: Python

    msp.add_solid([(0, 0), (10, 0), (10, 10), (0, 10)])


.. image:: gfx/solid0.png
    :align: center

Reverse the last two vertices to get the `expected` square:

.. code-block:: Python

    msp.add_solid([(0, 0), (10, 0), (0, 10), (10, 10)])

.. image:: gfx/solid1.png
    :align: center


.. note::

    The quirky vertex order is preserved at the lowest access level because
    `ezdxf` is intended as a DXF file format interface and presents the content
    of the DXF document to the package user as natively as possible.

    The :meth:`Trace.vertices` and :meth:`Trace.wcs_vertices` methods return the
    vertices in the `expected` (reversed) order.

======================== ==========================================
Subclass of              :class:`ezdxf.entities.DXFGraphic`
DXF type                 ``'TRACE'``
Factory function         :meth:`ezdxf.layouts.BaseLayout.add_trace`
Inherited DXF attributes :ref:`Common graphical DXF attributes`
======================== ==========================================

.. warning::

    Do not instantiate entity classes by yourself - always use the provided
    factory functions!


.. class:: Trace

    .. attribute:: dxf.vtx0

        Location of 1. vertex (2D/3D Point in :ref:`OCS`)

    .. attribute:: dxf.vtx1

        Location of 2. vertex (2D/3D Point in :ref:`OCS`)

    .. attribute:: dxf.vtx2

        Location of 3. vertex (2D/3D Point in :ref:`OCS`)

    .. attribute:: dxf.vtx3

        Location of 4. vertex (2D/3D Point in :ref:`OCS`)

    .. automethod:: transform

    .. automethod:: vertices

    .. automethod:: wcs_vertices

.. _DXF Reference: http://help.autodesk.com/view/OARX/2018/ENU/?guid=GUID-EA6FBCA8-1AD6-4FB2-B149-770313E93511
