docs/source/concepts/lineweights.rst, before:

.. _lineweights:

Lineweights
===========

The :attr:`~ezdxf.entities.DXFGraphic.dxf.lineweight` attribute represents the
lineweight as integer value in millimeters * 100, e.g. 0.25mm = 25,
independently from the unit system used in the DXF document.
The :attr:`lineweight` attribute is supported by DXF version R2000 and newer.

Only certain values are valid, they are stored in
:attr:`ezdxf.lldxf.const.VALID_DXF_LINEWEIGHTS`: 0, 5, 9, 13, 15, 18, 20, 25,
30, 35, 40, 50, 53, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 106, 120, 140, 158, 200, 211.

Values < 0 have a special meaning and can be imported as constants from
:mod:`ezdxf.lldxf.const`

=== ==================
-1  LINEWEIGHT_BYLAYER
-2  LINEWEIGHT_BYBLOCK
-3  LINEWEIGHT_DEFAULT
=== ==================

The validator function: :func:`ezdxf.lldxf.validator.is_valid_lineweight`
returns ``True`` for valid lineweight values otherwise ``False``.

Sample file which shows all valid lineweights: `valid_lineweights.dxf`_

You have to enable the option to show lineweights in your CAD application or
viewer to see the effect on screen, which is often disabled by default, the same
has to be done in the page setup options for plotting lineweights.

.. image:: ../gfx/valid_lineweights.png


The lineweight value can be overridden by :term:`CTB` or :term:`STB` files.

.. _`valid_lineweights.dxf`: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mozman/ezdxf/master/examples_dxf/valid_lineweights.dxf

Commit message:

add docs about header variables $LWDISPLAY and $LWDISPSCALE

docs/source/concepts/lineweights.rst, after:

.. _lineweights:

Lineweights
===========

The :attr:`~ezdxf.entities.DXFGraphic.dxf.lineweight` attribute represents the
lineweight as integer value in millimeters * 100, e.g. 0.25mm = 25,
independently from the unit system used in the DXF document.
The :attr:`lineweight` attribute is supported by DXF version R2000 and newer.

Only certain values are valid, they are stored in
:attr:`ezdxf.lldxf.const.VALID_DXF_LINEWEIGHTS`: 0, 5, 9, 13, 15, 18, 20, 25,
30, 35, 40, 50, 53, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100, 106, 120, 140, 158, 200, 211.

Values < 0 have a special meaning and can be imported as constants from
:mod:`ezdxf.lldxf.const`

=== ==================
-1  LINEWEIGHT_BYLAYER
-2  LINEWEIGHT_BYBLOCK
-3  LINEWEIGHT_DEFAULT
=== ==================

The validator function: :func:`ezdxf.lldxf.validator.is_valid_lineweight`
returns ``True`` for valid lineweight values otherwise ``False``.

Sample file which shows all valid lineweights: `valid_lineweights.dxf`_

You have to enable the option to show lineweights in your CAD application or
viewer to see the effect on screen, which is often disabled by default, the same
has to be done in the page setup options for plotting lineweights.

Setting the HEADER variable ``$LWDISPLAY`` to 1 may activate support for
showing lineweights on screen and ``$LWDISPSCALE`` may scale the lineweight
on screen::

    # activate on screen lineweight display
    doc.header["$LWDISPLAY"] = 1
    # lineweight scaling factor for on screen display
    doc.header["$LWDISPSCALE"] = 0.55


.. image:: ../gfx/valid_lineweights.png


The lineweight value can be overridden by :term:`CTB` or :term:`STB` files.

.. _`valid_lineweights.dxf`: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mozman/ezdxf/master/examples_dxf/valid_lineweights.dxf
