docs/source/concepts/units.rst, before:

.. _dxf units:

DXF Units
=========

The `DXF reference`_ has no explicit information how to handle units in DXF, any
information in this section is based on experiments with BricsCAD and may differ
in other CAD application, BricsCAD tries to be as compatible with AutoCAD as
possible. Therefore, this information should also apply to AutoCAD.

Please open an issue on `github`_ if you have any corrections or additional
information about this topic.

Length Units
------------

Any length or coordinate value in DXF is unitless in the first place, there is
no unit information attached to the value. The unit information comes from the
context where a DXF entity is used. The modelspace get the unit information from
the header variable $INSUNITS, paperspace and block layouts get their unit
information form the attribute :attr:`~ezdxf.layouts.BaseLayout.units`.

Inserting a block reference into the modelspace or another block layout, should
apply a scaling if the units of the block reference and the target layout are
different, this behavior is not implemented yet for the :meth:`Insert.virtual_entities`
and :meth:`Insert.explode` methods, this will be added in the future.

Angle Units
-----------

Angles are always in degrees (360 deg = full circle) and in counter clockwise
orientation, unless stated explicit otherwise.

Display Format
--------------

How values are shown in the CAD GUI is controlled by the header variables
$LUNITS and $AUNITS, but this has no meaning for values stored in DXF files.

$INSUNITS
---------

The most important setting is the header variable $INSUNITS, this variable
defines the drawing units for the modelspace and therefore for the DXF
document if no further settings are applied.

The modelspace LAYOUT entity has a property :attr:`~ezdxf.layouts.BaseLayout.units`
as any layout like object, but it seem to have no meaning for the modelspace,
BricsCAD set this property always to 0, which means unitless.

The most common units are 6 for meters and 1 for inches.

.. code-block:: python


    doc.header['$INSUNITS'] = 6

=== ===============
0   Unitless
1   Inches
2   Feet
3   Miles
4   Millimeters
5   Centimeters
6   Meters
7   Kilometers
8   Microinches
9   Mils
10  Yards
11  Angstroms
12  Nanometers
13  Microns
14  Decimeters
15  Decameters
16  Hectometers
17  Gigameters
18  Astronomical units
19  Light years
20  Parsecs
21  US Survey Feet
22  US Survey Inch
23  US Survey Yard
24  US Survey Mile
=== ===============

$MEASUREMENT
------------

The header variable $MEASUREMENT controls whether the current drawing uses
imperial or metric hatch pattern and linetype files, this setting is not applied
correct in `ezdxf` yet, but will be fixed in the future:

This setting is independent from $INSUNITS, it is possible to set the drawing
units to inch and use metric linetypes and hatch pattern.

.. code-block:: python


    doc.header['$MEASUREMENT'] = 1

=== ===============
0   English
1   Metric
=== ===============

$LUNITS
-------

The header variable $LUNITS defines how CAD applications show linear values in
the GUI and has no meaning for `ezdxf`:

.. code-block:: python


    doc.header['$LUNITS'] = 2

=== ===============
1   Scientific
2   Decimal (default)
3   Engineering
4   Architectural
5   Fractional
=== ===============

$AUNITS
-------

The header variable $AUNITS defines how CAD applications show angular values in
the GUI and has no meaning for `ezdxf`, DXF angles are always degrees in
counter-clockwise orientation, unless stated explicit otherwise:

.. code-block:: python

    doc.header['$AUNITS'] = 0

=== ===============
0   Decimal degrees
1   Degrees/minutes/seconds
2   Grad
3   Radians
=== ===============


.. _github: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/issues
.. _DXF reference: http://help.autodesk.com/view/OARX/2018/ENU/?guid=GUID-235B22E0-A567-4CF6-92D3-38A2306D73F3

Commit message:

add info how to handle block units
Unit conversion has to be stored explicit as scaling factors,
CAD application do not automatically apply a conversion between
units of block references and layouts.

docs/source/concepts/units.rst, after:

.. _dxf units:

DXF Units
=========

The `DXF reference`_ has no explicit information how to handle units in DXF, any
information in this section is based on experiments with BricsCAD and may differ
in other CAD application, BricsCAD tries to be as compatible with AutoCAD as
possible. Therefore, this information should also apply to AutoCAD.

Please open an issue on `github`_ if you have any corrections or additional
information about this topic.

Length Units
------------

Any length or coordinate value in DXF is unitless in the first place, there is
no unit information attached to the value. The unit information comes from the
context where a DXF entity is used. The modelspace get the unit information from
the header variable $INSUNITS, paperspace and block layouts get their unit
information form the attribute :attr:`~ezdxf.layouts.BaseLayout.units`.

When inserting a block reference into the modelspace or another block layout
with different units, the scaling factor between these units should be applied
as scaling DXF attributes (:attr:`xscale`, ...) of the block reference (e.g.
modelspace in meters and block in centimeters, :attr:`xscale` has to be 0.01).

Angle Units
-----------

Angles are always in degrees (360 deg = full circle) and in counter clockwise
orientation, unless stated explicit otherwise.

Display Format
--------------

How values are shown in the CAD GUI is controlled by the header variables
$LUNITS and $AUNITS, but this has no meaning for values stored in DXF files.

$INSUNITS
---------

The most important setting is the header variable $INSUNITS, this variable
defines the drawing units for the modelspace and therefore for the DXF
document if no further settings are applied.

The modelspace LAYOUT entity has a property :attr:`~ezdxf.layouts.BaseLayout.units`
as any layout like object, but it seem to have no meaning for the modelspace,
BricsCAD set this property always to 0, which means unitless.

The most common units are 6 for meters and 1 for inches.

.. code-block:: python


    doc.header['$INSUNITS'] = 6

=== ===============
0   Unitless
1   Inches
2   Feet
3   Miles
4   Millimeters
5   Centimeters
6   Meters
7   Kilometers
8   Microinches
9   Mils
10  Yards
11  Angstroms
12  Nanometers
13  Microns
14  Decimeters
15  Decameters
16  Hectometers
17  Gigameters
18  Astronomical units
19  Light years
20  Parsecs
21  US Survey Feet
22  US Survey Inch
23  US Survey Yard
24  US Survey Mile
=== ===============

$MEASUREMENT
------------

The header variable $MEASUREMENT controls whether the current drawing uses
imperial or metric hatch pattern and linetype files, this setting is not applied
correct in `ezdxf` yet, but will be fixed in the future:

This setting is independent from $INSUNITS, it is possible to set the drawing
units to inch and use metric linetypes and hatch pattern.

.. code-block:: python


    doc.header['$MEASUREMENT'] = 1

=== ===============
0   English
1   Metric
=== ===============

$LUNITS
-------

The header variable $LUNITS defines how CAD applications show linear values in
the GUI and has no meaning for `ezdxf`:

.. code-block:: python


    doc.header['$LUNITS'] = 2

=== ===============
1   Scientific
2   Decimal (default)
3   Engineering
4   Architectural
5   Fractional
=== ===============

$AUNITS
-------

The header variable $AUNITS defines how CAD applications show angular values in
the GUI and has no meaning for `ezdxf`, DXF angles are always degrees in
counter-clockwise orientation, unless stated explicit otherwise:

.. code-block:: python

    doc.header['$AUNITS'] = 0

=== ===============
0   Decimal degrees
1   Degrees/minutes/seconds
2   Grad
3   Radians
=== ===============


.. _github: https://github.com/mozman/ezdxf/issues
.. _DXF reference: http://help.autodesk.com/view/OARX/2018/ENU/?guid=GUID-235B22E0-A567-4CF6-92D3-38A2306D73F3
